---
title: "With 25%+ gains in the bag, here are our AI's top global picks for February"
date: "2025-02-07 21:32:40"
summary: "Investing.com - On the heels of what can only be described as an action-packed January, February kicked off with the same level of excitement - and volatility - for global stock market investors.Amid escalating risks of a trade war between China and the US, rate cuts in the EU, and..."
categories:
  - "investing_us"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "investing_us"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Investing.com - On the heels of what can only be described as an action-packed January, February kicked off with the same level of excitement - and volatility - for global stock market investors.Amid escalating risks of a trade war between China and the US, rate cuts in the EU, and disruptions in the AI space caused by DeepSeek, picking the right stocks has once again proven the most fundamental difference between compounding solid gains and lagging behind the market.That's why our premium users see opportunity where others see volatility. For less than $9 a month, they received a market-beating list of AI-picked global stocks for 12 markets on February 2. And the gains have already started to flow in. Here are a few examples: Monolithic Power Systems (NASDAQ:MPWR) (US): +14.3% in February alone (up 10.5% in premarket trading after crushing earnings last evening).  
 Castrol India Ltd (NSE:CAST) (India): +18.69% in February alone.  
 Banco Santander (NYSE:SAN) (BME:SAN) (Spain): +13.38% in February alone.  
DB HiTek Co Ltd (KS:000990) (Korea): +20.25% in February alone.  
Among several others...Subscribe here to unlock our AI's picks for February right now - available for 12 global markets.\*Already a member? Then jump straight to the picks here.The impressive results come after our state-of-the-art AI model crushed the market in its first month of live global trading, with picks that gained 25%+ in January. Just to name a few: Iveco NV (BIT:IVG) (Italy): +27.5% in January.  
Turkiye Halk Bankasi (IS:HALKB) (Turkey): +25.35% in January.  
G2 Goldfields (TSX:GTWO) (Canada): +29.9% in January.  
Not only that but also our composed strategies also notched fantastic results in January. See below:Italian Market Elite: +9.61% in January.   
Alpha Germany Select: +9.67% in January.   
Canadian Growth: +10.88% in January.  
These are real-world results - not backtested numbers.As a matter of fact, our backtest suggests that going the long run is the surest path to long-term wealth generation. Check out the 10-year outperformance of Tech Titans over the S&P 500 below:This means if you had invested $100k in the stocks picked by Tech Titans in 2015, you would be sitting on a life-changing $2,082,902 today. But how is this possible? Is it some sort of AI magic? Of course not.ProPicks AI works because it uses a straightforward, industry-recognized approach to fundamental analysis, leveraging cutting-edge big data modeling and a rich history of stock market data to provide our premium users with only the highest probability picks.By quickly comparing the financial and stock performance of all stocks in the market, it reveals numerous hidden gems with investment-grade precision, thus boosting returns and lowering risks.That’s how our AI, unlike other models, identifies promising stocks before they become too expensive.Join now via this link and give yourself the upper hand in February before it's too late.

[investing_us](https://www.investing.com/news/stock-market-news/with-25-gains-in-the-bag-here-are-our-ais-top-global-picks-for-february-3855696)
