---
title: "Oil prices set for 3rd straight weekly loss on surplus risks, US-China tensions"
date: "2025-02-07 10:03:18"
summary: "Investing.com- Oil prices were little changed in Asian trading on Friday but remained on course for a third consecutive weekly decline, pressured by fears of a supply glut and lingering U.S.-China trade tensions.At 20:09 ET (01:09 GMT), Brent Oil Futures were largely muted at $74.27 a barrel, while Crude Oil..."
categories:
  - "investing_us"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "investing_us"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Investing.com- Oil prices were little changed in Asian trading on Friday but remained on course for a third consecutive weekly decline, pressured by fears of a supply glut and lingering U.S.-China trade tensions.  
At 20:09 ET (01:09 GMT), Brent Oil Futures were largely muted at $74.27 a barrel, while Crude Oil WTI Futures expiring in March were steady at $70.33 a barrel.  
Both contracts were set to lose nearly 3% this week as a combination of ongoing geopolitical uncertainties, a sharp jump in U.S. crude stockpiles, and Donald Trump’s pledge to boost production, sparked concerns about an oversupplied market.  
Trump’s pledge to boost production sparks oversupply risks  
On Thursday, President Donald Trump reiterated his commitment to increasing U.S. oil production, aiming to lower energy costs and bolster energy independence.  
This announcement exerted downward pressure on oil prices, which had already been experiencing declines.  
The prospect of heightened U.S. oil output raises fears of a supply glut, which typically leads to lower prices.  
When supply outpaces demand, the surplus oil can saturate the market, driving prices down as producers compete to sell their products.  
This comes after the Energy Information Administration reported a significantly higher-than-expected jump in weekly U.S. crude inventories, reflecting weak demand.  
Moreover, Trump has urged the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries and allies, or OPEC+ to increase output, to mitigate supply disruption risks stemming from sanctions on Russia and Iran.  
“The supply risks facing the market due to sanctions mean that the floor for oil prices is probably a little higher than we had expected coming into this year. However, much will depend on how trade relations progress,” ING analysts said in a recent note.  
“A tougher stance from the US on trade will be a concern for global growth,” they added.  
US-China tariff tensions persist  
Prices have also faced headwinds as China retaliated against U.S. tariffs by imposing duties on U.S. imports, including liquefied natural gas, coal, crude oil, and farm equipment.  
These developments have introduced uncertainty into the market, as traders assess the potential impact on global oil demand.  
China’s counter-tariffs will be implemented early next week. Market participants are cautious and wait to see the impact of these tariffs.

[investing_us](https://www.investing.com/news/commodities-news/oil-prices-set-for-3rd-straight-weekly-loss-on-surplus-risks-uschina-tensions-3855414)
