---
title: "Commerzbank Slashes Workforce by 3,900 in Bold Restructuring Amid UniCredit Merger Pressures"
date: "2025-02-13 18:35:54"
summary: "Commerzbank (GER:CBK) has announced plans to reduce its workforce by 3,900 positions, primarily within Germany. This decision aims to bolster the bank's competitive stance as it faces increased pressure from UniCredit, an Italian banking giant that has expressed interest in a merger.The job cuts, slated to unfold by 2028, will..."
categories:
  - "stockinvest"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "stockinvest"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Commerzbank (GER:[**CBK**](https://stockinvest.us/stock/CBK.DE)) has announced plans to reduce its workforce by 3,900 positions, primarily within Germany. This decision aims to bolster the bank's competitive stance as it faces increased pressure from [UniCredit](https://stockinvest.us/stock/UC), an Italian banking giant that has expressed interest in a merger.

The job cuts, slated to unfold by 2028, will largely occur through natural attrition and early retirement programs, ensuring that the overall number of full-time roles remains stable at approximately 36,700. This strategy not only highlights Commerzbank's commitment to streamline operations but also safeguards remaining employees from undue turbulence.

Leading this strategic overhaul is CEO Bettina Orlopp, whose management team believes there is considerable value potential inherent in the bank. The forthcoming changes, described as ambitious, have drawn positive commentary from analysts, with Deutsche Bank labeling the updated guidance as “bullish” and RBC calling it “punchy.” These sentiments reflect a broader optimism regarding Commerzbank's future as an independent entity.

Despite job losses, Commerzbank has recently reported a robust 20% year-over-year increase in net profit, suggesting that its revitalization efforts are already showing promise. Among the financial targets set, the bank is aiming for a net profit of €3.8 billion by 2027, revised upward from an earlier objective of €3.6 billion. Additionally, it plans to achieve a more ambitious cost-to-income ratio of 53%, improving upon a prior goal of 54%.

As the landscape of European banking continues to shift with potential mergers and acquisitions on the horizon, Commerzbank seems determined to maintain its independence.

[stockinvest](https://stockinvest.us/digest/commerzbank-slashes-workforce-by-3900-in-bold-restructuring-amid-unicredit-merger-pressures)
