---
title: "Hermes Sees 18% Sales Growth Despite Luxury Market Slowdown"
date: "2025-02-14 16:41:13"
summary: "Hermes (PAR:RMS), renowned for its iconic Birkin bags, has announced a substantial year-end sales increase of 18%. Despite a challenging retail landscape, where many luxury brands have struggled, Hermes stands out, significantly outperforming competitors like LVMH (PAR:MC) and Kering's (PAR:KER) Gucci.During the fourth quarter, Hermes achieved sales of approximately €3.96..."
categories:
  - "stockinvest"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "stockinvest"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

**Hermes (**PAR:[**RMS**](https://stockinvest.us/stock/RMS.PA)**)**, renowned for its iconic Birkin bags, has announced a substantial year-end sales increase of 18%. Despite a challenging retail landscape, where many luxury brands have struggled, Hermes stands out, significantly outperforming competitors like LVMH (PAR:[**MC**](https://stockinvest.us/stock/MC.PA)) and Kering's (PAR:[**KER**](https://stockinvest.us/stock/KER.PA)) Gucci.

During the fourth quarter, Hermes achieved sales of approximately €3.96 billion ($4.14 billion), a remarkable surge that exceeded analyst predictions of a mere 10% increase. It seems that even in a climate marked by a slight downturn in global luxury sales—down about 2% largely due to economic concerns in China and rising inflation elsewhere—wealthy consumers continued to indulge in the finer things, like a Birkin bag priced over $10,000.

Interestingly, the company's leather goods sector, which includes the famed Birkin, displayed the fastest growth, climbing by 21.5% and outpacing expectations of a 13% increase. Sales in the Americas and Japan reported matched growth rates of 22.3%, demonstrating a robust appetite among affluent consumers in these regions. In comparison, LVMH's sales barely budged, rising only 1% during the same period.

Despite the positive performance, Hermes' executive chairman Axel Dumas remains cautious: "It's too early to discern any significant shift in the industry." While many competitors are grappling with economic pressures, Hermes seems to be navigating these waters with skill, maintaining a controlled production approach to preserve its exclusivity and brand value. Dumas emphasized that they would not compromise on their production locations in France, Switzerland, and Italy, even in the face of potential U.S. tariffs on European goods.

To adjust for higher production costs and fluctuating exchange rates, Hermes is planning to implement price increases of around 6-7% this year. Such moves are expected to bolster their revenue further while ensuring their products remain synonymous with luxury.

[stockinvest](https://stockinvest.us/digest/hermes-defies-luxury-market-slowdown-with-18-year-end-sales-surge-a-must-watch-stock-for-traders)
