---
title: "European Midday Briefing: Investors Await U.S. Jobs Report"
date: "2025-02-07 18:30:56"
summary: "MARKET WRAPS Stocks: Stocks were mixed ahead of the U.S. nonfarm payrolls report and Pepperstone said it was tough to imagine the data being a game-changer from a Federal Reserve policy perspective. The Fed's Jerome Powell has noted that policymakers need to see either real inflation progress or some labor..."
categories:
  - "morningstar"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "morningstar"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

MARKET WRAPS

Stocks:

Stocks were mixed ahead of the U.S. nonfarm payrolls report and Pepperstone said it was tough to imagine the data being a game-changer from a Federal Reserve policy perspective.

The Fed's Jerome Powell has noted that policymakers need to see either real inflation progress or some labor market weakness in order to unlock another rate cut, it said.

For markets, the jobs report is likely to be a case of 'good news is good news,' or vice versa, with a focus on the underlying economic story rather than any potential policy implications, it added.

Meanwhile, MFS Investment Management said global equities haven't yet factored in significant policy risks around U.S. tariffs, which are likely to have a wide-ranging impact on multiple assets, anticipating negative implications on stock prices.

In terms of fixed income, the latest development was likely to further reduce the Fed's ability to ease going forward, given the potential one-off adjustment effect on U.S. domestic prices.

U.S. Markets:

Stock futures were muted ahead of the keenly eyed data, which will likely show the economy added 169,000 jobs, according to economists polled by The Wall Street Journal.

That would be below December's increase, but it would still count as a solid gain-especially since the tally will probably be weighed down by job losses related to the Los Angeles fires as well as unusually cold weather in many parts of the country.

Amazon stock was lower premarket, after it forecast weaker-than-expected sales as it spent a record in capital expenditure to build infrastructure for AI services.

Forex:

The euro could rise if the ECB revises its estimate of the neutral rate higher at 1200 GMT, ING said.

ECB member Olli Rehn said Thursday that "we should not constrain our freedom of action because of a theoretical concept."

Based on these comments, and the fact that neutral rate projections embed much higher inflation than previously, the rate should be revised higher, and if U.S. jobs data could be weaker than expected, the euro could rise back to Wednesday's $1.0443 high, it said.

The dollar was steady, but could fall slightly if payrolls data are weaker, Swissquote Bank said.

Any dollar depreciation will remain limited against European currencies due to expectations for more rate cuts compared with the U.S. and safe-haven demand.

The Polish zloty, Hungarian forint and Czech koruna rallied on the prospect of a deal to end the war in Ukraine after the U.S. mentioned progress on this front, ING said.

"The simultaneous rally in FX and rates suggests that positive sentiment on this [Ukraine] is likely driving the move."

The zloty is particularly strong after the Polish central bank Governor said Thursday there is no indication for interest rate cuts in 2025.

Bonds:

Eurozone government bond yields were little changed as markets await the EBC's new estimate of neutral rate for potential clues on how far interest rates could fall.

"The announcement comes as the discussion on where the ECB rate should land intensifies after five cuts in the deposit rate to 2.75%," SEB Research said.

With inflation expected at 2% this year, the ECB's executive board agrees that more cuts are likely, but exactly how many is difficult to say, it added.

SocGen said that if payrolls data prompts a selloff in Treasurys, it could be a buying opportunity.

"We are neutral on duration, but view a selloff post NFP as a buying opportunity."

The 10-year U.S. Treasury yield broke below the tight 4.50%-4.65% range in response to weaker data and unchanged forward guidance in the Treasury's refunding announcement, nevertheless, the risks to yields are skewed to the downside in case of a below-consensus print, it added.

The Bank of Japan was behind the curve and needs to get to neutral, between 1% and 1.5%, over the coming year, RBC BlueBay Asset Management said.

"That should drag the entire curve higher, but in particular the 10-year part of the curve, which is currently artificially dragged down by Rinban purchases."

However, those purchases of JGBs will be reduced from July onward, he says.

"That being said, we do think the 30-year part of the curve is approaching fairer value at around 2.5%."

Energy:

Oil prices rose after the U.S. imposed sanctions on an international network facilitating the shipment of Iranian crude to China to ramp up pressure on the Middle Eastern country.

The sanctions target entities and individuals in China, India and the UAE, as well as several vessels, according to the Treasury Department.

Still, crude prices are headed for weekly losses after days of volatile trade, with demand concerns in focus amid a bigger-than-expected rise in U.S. crude stockpiles, Trump's tariffs on China and push for increased domestic production.

Metals:

Gold futures rose, hovering just below record highs.

The precious metal is up 1.7% on week and 8.5% in the year to date, as Trump's tariff policies reignite fears of looming trade wars, BMI said, adding that near term prices should remain elevated.

Gold Chart

Comex gold futures' upward movement is taking a minor pause, based on the daily chart, RHB Retail Research said.

During this consolidation phase, the commodity could pull back to test the $2,800 support level, it added.

Copper

Copper was higher after the world's largest copper producer, Chile, warned of tighter supply, according to ANZ.

```
   
 
 
```

EMEA HEADLINES

Danske Bank Launches New $695.8 Million Share Buyback as Earnings Beat Own Forecast

Danske Bank has launched a new 5 billion Danish kroner ($695.8 million) share buyback as it reported a rise in net profit for last year that beat its own forecast, and said it is well-positioned for future growth.

The Copenhagen-based bank said Friday that net profit for the year was 23.63 billion kroner compared with 21.26 billion kroner a year prior, and a company forecast of between 22.5 billion and 23.5 billion kroner.

```
   
 
 
```

Banco de Sabadell Lifts Shareholder Returns After Earnings Rise

Banco de Sabadell raised its shareholder returns after posting an increase in earnings for the fourth quarter of last year.

The Spanish lender said its net profit for the quarter grew to 532 million euros ($552.5 million) from 304 million euros, helping it hit a record 1.83 billion euros for the full year.

```
   
 
 
```

Legal & General to Sell U.S. Insurance Businesses in $2.3 Billion Deal

Legal & General Group is selling its U.S. protection and pension risk transfer businesses to long-term partner Meiji Yasuda Life Insurance in a deal that values them at $2.3 billion.

The FTSE 100-listed insurance company said Friday that it expects to return 1.0 billion pounds ($1.24 billion) of the funds to shareholders via buybacks upon completion of the deal. It added that the board expects to return 40% of its market capitalization to shareholders through 2027 via a combination of dividends and buybacks.

```
   
 
 
   
 
 
```

GLOBAL NEWS

Fed might need to hold rates steady 'for quite some time,' Logan says

The Federal Reserve may need to hold rates at least at the current level "for quite some time," and even slower inflation might not be a reason for easing, Dallas Fed President Lorie Logan said Thursday.

In a speech in Mexico City, Logan said she saw two key possibilities for interest-rate strategies this year.

```
   
 
 
```

DeepSeek Breakthrough Fuels Rally in Chinese Tech Stocks

A Nasdaq-like index for Chinese companies listed in Hong Kong has entered technical bull territory following robust gains by China's largest technology stocks that have added billions of dollars in market value, driven by the sudden rise to fame of homegrown AI app DeepSeek.

The Hang Seng Tech Index, which tracks the 30 largest technology companies listed in the city, rose as much as 2.9% on Friday, reflecting a rise of more than 20% from its January low. The index is closing in on its 2024 high reached in October but is still far from the all-time high recorded in early 2021.

```
   
 
 
```

Politico Draws DOGE's Ire, Signaling a Shakeout for Media with Major Government Customers

An inside-the-Beltway must-read media outlet has quickly become a flashpoint in President Trump's pursuit of federal government-spending cuts.

Politico, launched nearly 20 years ago to provide insight into government goings-on and Capitol Hill haggling, built a lucrative business selling news and, increasingly, targeted products to federal agencies and the lobbyists and consultants who serve them. It developed sophisticated policy-analysis and tracking tools, in addition to exclusive news and newsletters.

```
   
 
 
```

Judge Pauses Deadline for Federal Worker Buyout Offer

A federal judge paused a Thursday deadline for federal employees to decide whether to accept an offer from the Trump administration to resign their jobs voluntarily as the president and his allies attempt to shrink the government workforce.

U.S. District Judge George O'Toole in Massachusetts scheduled a hearing for Monday on whether to grant a temporary restraining order that would block the program while the litigation challenging the offer proceeds.

```
   
 
 
```

Write to clare.kinloch@wsj.com

Write to us at newsletters@dowjones.com

We offer an enhanced version of this briefing that is optimized for viewing on mobile devices and sent directly to your email inbox. If you would like to sign up, please go to https://newsplus.wsj.com/subscriptions.

This article is a text version of a Wall Street Journal newsletter published earlier today.

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

February 07, 2025 05:19 ET (10:19 GMT)

Copyright (c) 2025 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

[morningstar](https://www.morningstar.com/news/dow-jones/202502074022/european-midday-briefing-investors-await-us-jobs-report)
