---
title: "Canada Unemployment Rate Slips Again in January to 6.6% — Update"
date: "2025-02-07 22:10:53"
summary: "By Robb M. Stewart OTTAWA--Another month of unexpectedly strong hiring in Canada saw the jobless rate again fall to start the year. Employers in the country added 76,000 jobs in January, Statistics Canada said Friday. For a second month running, job gains outpaced growth in the labor market and meant..."
categories:
  - "morningstar"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "morningstar"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Robb M. Stewart

OTTAWA--Another month of unexpectedly strong hiring in Canada saw the jobless rate again fall to start the year.

Employers in the country added 76,000 jobs in January, Statistics Canada said Friday. For a second month running, job gains outpaced growth in the labor market and meant the unemployment rate dipped to 6.6%, the lowest level since October.

Economists were expecting hiring to slow to 25,000 for the month, after roughly 135,000 jobs were added to the economy in the final two months of last year, and for the jobless rate to tick up 0.1 percentage point.

When calculated using U.S. Labor Department methodology, Canada's unemployment rate fell to 5.6% for the first month of the year from 5.8% in December.

The growth in employment was split between full-time and part-time jobs last month and was seen across several industries, including manufacturing, which has shown signs of recovery in recent months and in construction where housing activity has perked up of late.

Hiring has picked up after a slowdown last summer, though the pace has for the past two years has failed to keep pace with population growth. Federal efforts to slow immigration are expected to result in the population shrinking slightly near term, putting the brakes on expansion in the labor force over the course of the year.

Still, economists worry that President Trump's threat to hit imports from Canada with hefty tariffs, a decision he early in the week paused for one month, could weigh on already subdued business sentiment and halt hiring plans.

The Bank of Canada late last month lowered its policy interest rate a sixth time since June as inflation has fallen in line with its 2% target and with wage pressures showing signs of easing. But the central bank dropped any guidance on the future path for rates given uncertainty about U.S. tariffs and the prospect a protracted trade conflict would weaken the economy and push prices higher.

There remain signs of stress in the labor market.

The number of unemployed Canadians, those looking for work or on temporary layoff, was little changed at about 1.5 million in January but was up by 251,000 on a year earlier. Although it has eased for two months running, the jobless rate had increased 1.9 percentage points from March 2023 to last November, when it hit a recent peak of 6.9% as the job market softened following a period of high vacancies and lower unemployment following the peak of the Covid-19 pandemic.

Statistics Canada notes that among those who were jobless at the end of 2024, about 65% were still without a job in January, a larger proportion than for the same period a year ago.

The participation rate--the proportion of the working-age population who were either employed or unemployed--rose slightly to 65.5% in January from 65.4% the month before.

At the same time, the employment rate, the proportion of the working-age population that is employed, also edged up 0.1 point to 61.1%.

Wage growth continues to outpace inflation but has continued to slow. Average hourly wages for permanent employees rose 3.7% in January from a year earlier, where economists were expecting pay growth to remain steady at 3.8%.

Wage growth, which has remained sticky, has now decelerated three months in a row and the rise for all employees in January was the slowest pace since April 2022.

Total hours worked rose 0.9% on-month, and were up 2.2% compared with a year earlier. That is a positive sign for gross domestic product and may reflect the end of labor disruptions in the postal, rail and maritime port sectors late last year.

Write to Robb M. Stewart robb.stewart@wsj.com

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

February 07, 2025 09:01 ET (14:01 GMT)

Copyright (c) 2025 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

[morningstar](https://www.morningstar.com/news/dow-jones/202502076623/canada-unemployment-rate-slips-again-in-january-to-66-update)
