---
title: "Canopy Growth's mixed results stop momentum from recent marijuana-stock rally"
date: "2025-02-07 21:30:54"
summary: "By Steve Gelsi Canadian pot company posts another quarterly loss as adult-use sales slump, despite some bright spots Canopy Growth Corp.'s stock fell sharply in premarket trading as the Canadian pot company's wider-than-expected third-quarter loss chilled a recent rally in its share price. While Canopy Growth (CGC) managed to reduce..."
categories:
  - "morningstar"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "morningstar"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Steve Gelsi

Canadian pot company posts another quarterly loss as adult-use sales slump, despite some bright spots

Canopy Growth Corp.'s stock fell sharply in premarket trading as the Canadian pot company's wider-than-expected third-quarter loss chilled a recent rally in its share price.

While Canopy Growth (CGC) managed to reduce its losses and pay down debt, its operating margins fell as it invested in a new product launch. It also faced weaker adult-use sales, although its medical-pot business grew.

Canopy Growth's stock fell 15% in premarket trading, after rising nearly 40% in the past week.

Canopy Growth said its third-quarter loss narrowed to C$121.9 million ($85 million), or C$1.11 a share, from a loss of C$216.8 million or C$2.62 a share, in the year-ago period.

Analysts had expected Canopy Growth to post a narrower loss of 52 cents a share.

Revenue fell 5% to C$74.76 million, ahead of the FactSet consensus estimate of C$69.1 million.

Adult-use sales fell 10% to C$21.2 million, while medical-cannabis sales jumped 16% to C$19.6 million.

Third-quarter gross margin fell by 4% to 32% from the year-ago level. Canopy Growth cited incremental costs related to the launch of its Claybourne-infused pre-rolls, as well as higher indirect costs at its Storz & Bickel vaporizer unit.

Canopy Growth also reduced its third-quarter debt to C$442 million from the previous quarter's debt of $C554 million by making an early prepayment on its senior secured term loan.

Fresh speculation about U.S. federal reforms for pot, as well as a rally in fellow Canadian pot company Aurora Cannabis Inc. (ACB) (CA:ACB) fed gains in cannabis stocks earlier this week

Also read: Cannabis stocks extend gains on RFK Jr. committee vote, Senate banking comments

-Steve Gelsi

This content was created by MarketWatch, which is operated by Dow Jones & Co. MarketWatch is published independently from Dow Jones Newswires and The Wall Street Journal.

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

02-07-25 0815ET

Copyright (c) 2025 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

[morningstar](https://www.morningstar.com/news/marketwatch/20250207171/canopy-growths-mixed-results-stop-momentum-from-recent-marijuana-stock-rally)
