---
title: "'Today' host Dylan Dreyer lists 2-bedroom NYC apartment for $2.5 million"
date: "2025-02-07 18:10:51"
summary: "By Kelsi Karruli Dreyer recently sparked fierce debate with her babysitting instructions calendar-helpful, or annoying? \"Today\" show anchor and mother of three Dylan Dreyer has quietly listed her New York City apartment for $2.5 million, eight years after she and husband Brian Fichera purchased the elegant abode. Dreyer, 43, and..."
categories:
  - "morningstar"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "morningstar"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Kelsi Karruli

Dreyer recently sparked fierce debate with her babysitting instructions calendar-helpful, or annoying?

"Today" show anchor and mother of three Dylan Dreyer has quietly listed her New York City apartment for $2.5 million, eight years after she and husband Brian Fichera purchased the elegant abode.

Dreyer, 43, and Fichera, 38, purchased the two-bedroom, two-bathroom condo in June 2016, according to property records, just a few months before they welcomed Calvin, the first of their three sons, in December.

With the addition of sons Oliver, 5, and Rusty, 3, the couple may well be ready for a more spacious dwelling.

Dreyer-who is a co-host on the third hour of "Today," alongside Al Roker and Sheinelle Jones-and cameraman Fichera first attempted to sell the property in November of last year, according to records.

But just two weeks after the apartment was put on the market for just under $2.5 million, the listing was taken down, only to be restored days later.

It was most recently relisted a few days into January for the same price.

The condo, which was built in 2008, is 1,491 square feet and features floor-to-ceiling windows with views of the lush landscaping of Battery Park below.

The expansive living room has elegant oak wood flooring, and the chef's kitchen offers a chic and minimalist design with gray cabinets, modern appliances, and marble countertops.

The dining room can accommodate 10 people.

The bedrooms are "generously proportioned," the listing notes. The "oversized" primary suite features a "five-fixture bathroom complete with Crema Luna limestone floors and tops, Waterworks fixtures and teak cabinetry."

The listing photos reveal the lengths that Dreyer and Fichera went to maximize the space in their second bedroom, which serves as a dedicated space for their kids. The bedroom offers a three-level bunk bed, a colorful rug, and animal-themed storage bins as well as a wall with built-in storage.

The second bedroom also boasts a separate bathroom that comes with chic white tiling.

While the apartment might be a tight squeeze for the family, the building offers communal spaces where they can stretch their legs, including a children's playroom and an expansive rooftop.

"Spectacular amenities include full time doorman, porters, a sky-lit indoor pool, hot tub, sauna, steam room, state of the art fitness center, children's playroom and a 7,000 square foot landscaped rooftop with two built-in commercial barbecue grills, a wet bar and cabanas with retractable awnings," the listing adds.

The building comes with a swimming pool, sauna, and pool table. The location is next to Battery Park and a selection of restaurants and hot spots.

The couple bought the home in 2016 after selling their Upper West Side co-op, which they listed for $862,000.

Dreyer has previously hinted at plans to move out of her Manhattan condo. In January 2022, she joked that while some might believe the space had become too tight for her family of five, she was determined to make it work for as long as possible.

More from Realtor.com: Boomers Are Refusing To Give Their $84 Trillion in Real Estate and Wealth to Their Children

She captioned the image: "'You have to move,' they said. 'You'll never fit in your apartment,' they said. 'Time for a bigger place,' they said.

"This is how you do it in NYC. I think they all fit just fine ... for now."

Dreyer also holds the keys to a stunning four-bedroom, three-bathroom home in Point Lookout, N.Y., which she snapped up in 2021 for $2.5 million.

The news of her home hitting the market comes just after the "Today" star sparked fierce debate with her babysitting instructions calendar.

More from Realtor.com: Lavish $725,000 Hawaii Condo Is Listed for Just $1 in Unbelievable 'Flash Sale'-So What's the Catch?

Dreyer offered a glimpse into her chaotic life as an on-air talent and busy mom of three when she posted an image of the very in-depth instructions she leaves her in-laws when they babysit-sparking a furious debate among her social media followers in the process.

"How much fun would it be to have me as your daughter-in-law??" she questioned while sharing a photo of her sons' weekly schedule, which included instructions for everything from meals to bathtime.

"I think I'm being helpful! Sound off: helpful or impossibly annoying???"

Speaking to Today.com about the calendar system, Dreyer insisted that her mother-in-law, Denise, appreciates the level of detail: "My mother-in-law babysits often. She comes down from Boston to help whenever we ask."

"She's obsessed with my boys, and if she hasn't seen them for more than two weeks, she's itching for the invite! My father-in-law will join her over the weekend to help with the juggle of birthday parties and sports."

More from Realtor.com: The Mortgage Lock-In Effect Is Waning as Sellers Flood the Market

The talk show host revealed that, although her mother-in-law wouldn't admit if she was annoyed with the schedule, Dreyer believes she appreciates it.

"My mother-in-law wouldn't tell me if she didn't like it, but I think she finds it helpful so she doesn't have to think and can instead just enjoy the boys.

"I just try to keep the weekdays organized, then the weekend is a free-for-all. I like to know they're filling up on good foods during the week. They can live a little over the weekend!"

More from Realtor.com: HGTV Star Tarek El Moussa Convinces His 8-Year-Old Son To Invest in Home Flip-Despite Branding Project a 'Disaster'

Although many fans praised Dreyer for her organization skills and branded her lists "helpful," a number of her followers urged her to "slow her roll."

Another user claimed it was "a little too detailed," while someone else noted that it was "a bit much."

This story originally ran on Realtor.com.

This content was created by MarketWatch, which is operated by Dow Jones & Co. MarketWatch is published independently from Dow Jones Newswires and The Wall Street Journal.

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

02-07-25 0501ET

Copyright (c) 2025 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

[morningstar](https://www.morningstar.com/news/marketwatch/20250207155/today-host-dylan-dreyer-lists-2-bedroom-nyc-apartment-for-25-million)
