---
title: "The Early Verdict on Tariffs; First Jobs Report of 2025 Awaited; India Central Bank Kicks Off Easing Cycle"
date: "2025-02-07 20:25:49"
summary: "The Early Verdict on Tariffs; First Jobs Report of 2025 Awaited; India Central Bank Kicks Off Easing Cycle By Vicky Ge Huang The (admittedly preliminary) evidence is that the economic case for tariffs doesn't hold up well: They do seem to raise prices, hurt growth, are borne at least partly..."
categories:
  - "morningstar"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "morningstar"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The Early Verdict on Tariffs; First Jobs Report of 2025 Awaited; India Central Bank Kicks Off Easing Cycle By Vicky Ge Huang

The (admittedly preliminary) evidence is that the economic case for tariffs doesn't hold up well: They do seem to raise prices, hurt growth, are borne at least partly by Americans, and invite retaliation that hurts exporters, writes Greg Ip for The Wall Street Journal.

But they are a potent negotiating tool; Trump did extract pledges from Mexico and Canada to beef up border security. Enduring some hit to the economy, then, might be a price worth paying, so long as others suffer more. Call it the logic of negative-sum economics.

On the data front, investors are gearing up for the monthly U.S. jobs report, due at 8:30 a.m. ET. The economy likely added 169,000 positions in January, with unemployment holding steady at 4.1%.

Meanwhile, India's central bank on Friday kicked off its easing cycle, cutting its policy rate for the first time in nearly five years as economic growth slows and inflation cools.

Top News The Early Verdict on Tariffs: Bad Economics, Better Politics

With Donald Trump's return to power has come an upswell of enthusiasm for tariffs and arguments in their favor: They'll usher in an economic "golden age," don't cause inflation, are paid by foreigners instead of Americans, and are an effective cudgel in political disputes , writes Greg Ip for The Wall Street Journal.

Most economists disagree, but who listens to economists these days? To test these claims we need "natural experiments": events where the effect of tariffs isn't confounded by other stuff like promised cuts to taxes and regulations. The 72 hours in which Trump was on track to hit Canada and Mexico with 25% tariffs is one such experiment.

Logan: Fed Might Need To Hold Rates Steady 'For Quite Some Time'

The Federal Reserve may need to hold rates at least at the current level "for quite some time," and even slower inflation might not be a reason for easing, Dallas Fed President Lorie Logan said Thursday.

In a speech in Mexico City, Logan said she saw two key possibilities for interest-rate strategies this year.

Some scenarios, where the labor market weakens or economic growth slows, may call for further easing, Logan said.

On the other hand, inflation could be bumpy in the short term, the Dallas Fed president said, as many businesses set prices once a year, in January, and they may have more pricing power when the economy is strong, as it has been in recent years. (MarketWatch)

India Central Bank Kicks Off Easing Cycle to Boost Economy

In his first policy statement at the Reserve Bank of India's helm, Gov. Sanjay Malhotra said Friday that the monetary-policy committee voted unanimously to cut the policy repo rate to 6.25% from 6.50%.

All 12 economists surveyed by The Wall Street Journal had expected the decision, which marks the end of the RBI's status as one of the few central banks in the region that had yet to start easing.

U.S. Economy Today's Jobs Report Will Be Confusing. Here's What to Know.

The January employment report could bring something that hasn't exactly been in short supply lately: a bit of confusion.

The report will likely show the economy added 169,000 jobs , according to economists polled by The Wall Street Journal. That would be below December's increase of 256,000. But it would still count as a solid gain-especially since the tally will probably be weighed down by job losses related to the Los Angeles fires as well as unusually cold weather in many parts of the country. Economists expect the unemployment rate to remain at 4.1%.

Tariffs Could Lead to Higher Insurance Prices

Americans don't import insurance from Canada, Mexico or China, but it could nonetheless get more expensive for consumers and businesses amid U.S. tariff uncertainty.

Jobless Claims Rise, But No Sign of Trouble Brewing in Labor Market

The number who applied for unemployment benefits in early February rose slightly, but they remained at very low levels in a sign the labor market is still quite healthy. New jobless claims, a proxy for layoffs, jumped by 11,000 to 219,000 in seven days ended Feb. 1. (MarketWatch)

New Orleans Needs an Economic Win. It's Betting on the Super Bowl.

Long plagued by natural disasters, infrastructure issues and high crime, New Orleans' economy has fallen behind that of other major southern cities such as Houston and Atlanta that it once eclipsed.

Financial Regulation Bank Stress Tests Now Feature Less Stress

The Federal Reserve on Wednesday released new scenarios for its next annual stress-test examination of big banks, and some early reviews are in on Thursday: "Less strenuous." "Less harsh." This annual exercise helps determine the big banks' capital requirements. It looks at how banks' capital would be affected by economic shocks like a market crash, a surge in unemployment and a jump in credit losses.

Trump Media Plans to Launch Bitcoin and 'Made in America' ETFs

President Trump's company is moving closer to selling financial products to the public. Trump Media & Technology Group said it has applied for trademarks for a series of exchange-traded funds and separately managed accounts with plans to launch them from this year onward.

The Mystery Guest at Thursday's Crypto Conference? Donald Trump Jr. Forward Guidance Friday (all times ET)

8:30 a.m.: U.S. Employment Report

10 a.m.: Monthly Wholesale Trade

10 a.m.: University of Michigan Survey of Consumers - preliminary

Monday

10 a.m.: Employment Trends Index

Research U.S. Labor Productivity Gains In Fourth Quarter

U.S. labor productivity continued a solid stretch of gains in 4Q, although with some deceleration. Productivity in 4Q was 1.6% better than a year earlier, down from a 2.1% 12-month improvement through 3Q. The figures were in line with consensus estimates but could decline in the near term, Pantheon Macro economists write. Business-equipment investment has been weak over the past year, and in a weaker labor market, companies might not have to push as hard to squeeze output gains from a fixed set of employees. On the other hand, the medium-term outlook is brighter as AI adoption broadens, promising to improve productivity through the second half of the decade. - Matt Grossman

Basis Points President Trump's threats of new tariffs are puncturing business and consumer confidence in Canada and Mexico, and the longer this uncertainty persists the more it will weigh on economic activity , Bank of Canada Gov. Tiff Macklem said Thursday. Industrial production in Germany sank in December , driven by a fall in output from the car industry, a further weak note for the troubled sector as it faces the threat of U.S. tariffs. U.K. retail footfall jumped in January , stimulated by promotional activity after a disappointing Christmas period, according to a report published Friday. China's foreign-exchange reserves rose by $6.68 billion to $3.209 trillion as of the end of January, after falling in December as the dollar index weakened, according to official data released Friday. (Dow Jones Newswires) Hong Kong will file a complaint against the U.S.'s additional 10% tariff with the World Trade Organization, claiming the levies violate WTO rules . Food prices slipped in January , driven by significantly cheaper sugar and vegetable oils, data from the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations showed on Friday. About Us

WSJ Pro Central Banking brings you central banking news, analysis and insights from WSJ's global team of reporters and editors. This newsletter was compiled by markets reporter Vicky Ge Huang in New York. Send your tips, suggestions and feedback to [vicky.huang@wsj.com].

This article is a text version of a Wall Street Journal newsletter published earlier today.

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

February 07, 2025 07:18 ET (12:18 GMT)

Copyright (c) 2025 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

[morningstar](https://www.morningstar.com/news/dow-jones/202502075315/the-early-verdict-on-tariffs-first-jobs-report-of-2025-awaited-india-central-bank-kicks-off-easing-cycle)
