---
title: "23 projects raised $131.2 million Taproot raised $30 million"
date: "2025-02-09 17:14:20"
summary: "Compiled by: Golden FinanceThis week, 23 blockchain startups raised a total of $131.2 million in funding.The largest round of funding this weekTaproot Wizards raised $30 million in a round of funding from investors such as Standard Crypto*, Cyber ​​Fund, Collider Ventures, Geometry, Masterkey VC and Newman Capital.Taproot Wizards is a..."
categories:
  - "coinlive_articles"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "coinlive_articles"
menu: ""
thumbnail: "https://image.coinlive.com/cryptotwits-static/fba35ae696dffc61aa247d5d5110c53a.jpg"
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Compiled by: Golden Finance

This week, 23 blockchain startups raised a total of $131.2 million in funding.

The largest round of funding this week
--------------------------------------

**Taproot Wizards** raised **$30 million** in a round of funding from investors such as Standard Crypto\*, Cyber ​​Fund, Collider Ventures, Geometry, Masterkey VC and Newman Capital.

**Taproot Wizards** is a Bitcoin-centric project inspired by early Bitcoin wizard memes that aims to rekindle the magic and sense of community within the Bitcoin space. The project is dedicated to rebuilding the "Wizard Village" and invites enthusiasts to join in and embrace the magic of Bitcoin by creating and sharing "Magic Internet JPEG Pictures" and reviving forgotten Bitcoin poems. The Taproot Wizards project aims to rekindle the spark of curiosity and camaraderie that characterized Bitcoin's early days.

**Angel and Seed Rounds**
-------------------------

**ProdigyFi** has raised $5 million in a seed round from investors including Quantstamp, Republic, Arbelos Markets, Panony, RSK Capital, and Samara Alpha Management.

**ProdigyFi** is a decentralized finance (DeFi) platform that offers dual investment products that enable users to earn returns by setting a target price for buying or selling cryptocurrencies such as Wrapped Ethereum (WETH). Users can create or subscribe to vaults with customizable parameters such as target price, expiration date, and yield, allowing for strategic trading and risk management. The platform serves both novice and experienced traders, providing permissionless trade execution opportunities and optimizing positions based on market movements.

**Fragmetric** raised $7M in a seed round from Finality Capital, Hashed, Hypersphere, Presto Labs, Bitscale Capital, Halo Capital, and Flowdesk.

**Fragmetric** is a Solana-based liquidity re-staking protocol designed to improve security and economic growth in the Solana ecosystem. Through fragSOL, the first liquidity re-staking token (LRT), users can participate in DeFi while earning a yield on their staked SOL and liquidity staked tokens. Fragmetric's platform leverages Solana's token scaling to optimize the distribution of staking, maximum extractable value (MEV), and NCN/AVS rewards, enabling users to leverage fragSOL as collateral, provide liquidity, or trade on decentralized exchanges (DEX). The protocol aims to build a robust re-staking ecosystem through standardized LRT and community contributions.

**Fraktion** raised **$1.1 million** in a seed round from investors including Cabrit Capital, Tezos Foundation, and Vox Capital.

**Fraktion** is an end-to-end Software-as-a-Service (SaaS) platform focused on the tokenization and management of real-world assets (RWAs). It enables enterprises to digitize assets, issue and manage security tokens, and streamline investor onboarding with an integrated KYC/AML compliance process. Fraktion's white label solution allows clients to efficiently launch personalized investment platforms, reduce operating costs, and enhance investor engagement. The platform supports a variety of use cases, including club trading, community-led investments, and crowdfunding initiatives.

**Henlo** raised **$3 million** in a seed round from investors including The Honey Jar, Kodiak, Arcthecommunity (ARC), Framework Ventures, Rubik VC, Baboon VC, Primitive, SNZ Holding, ViaBTC Capital, Paramount Capital, Wizards Capital, and Asylum Ventures.

**Henlo** is a meme coin built on the Berachain blockchain by The Honey Jar community. It is positioned as a "useless meme coin" with no utility value, but a fun and community-driven approach to the cryptocurrency space. Henlo aims to promote user engagement through memes, games, and a lighthearted culture, providing an entry point for newcomers to the world of cryptocurrency.

**Rho Protocol** raises **$4M** in a seed funding round from investors including CoinFund\*, Flow Traders, Speedinvest, and Auros Global.

**Rho Protocol** is a non-custodial platform that is revolutionizing institutional-grade interest rate derivatives trading. It provides a transparent and secure market for derivatives by seamlessly integrating crypto-specific and traditional interest rates on-chain, offering capital-efficient trading opportunities to institutional crypto traders. It focuses on areas such as staking, digital asset lending, and funding rates. The upcoming private beta launch on Arbitrum marks a significant milestone in reinventing the interest rate market in the decentralized crypto space.

**Tevau** raises **an undisclosed amount** in a pre-seed funding round.

**Tevau** is a financial platform that offers crypto-linked cards that enable users to seamlessly manage and spend their crypto assets. Through the Tevau app, available for download on the Google Play Store, users can easily manage their Tevau cards, including the ability to freeze, replace or manage their cards. The platform supports both VISA and Mastercard, providing flexible ways to transact. Tevau aims to bridge the gap between the traditional financial and cryptocurrency worlds by providing seamless financial opportunities to empower individuals.

**Flashnet** raised $4.5 million in a seed round of funding from investors including Abstract Ventures\*, UTXO Management, Soma Capital, HF0, Chapter One, Accomplice Blockchain, and Fan Zhang.

**Flashnet** is a non-custodial Bitcoin exchange that enables instant, low-fee transactions through the Lightning Network and Unspent Transaction Output (UTXO) transactions. It integrates seamlessly with Bitcoin wallets and provides deep liquidity for developers.

**Herd** raised **$1.8 million** in a pre-seed round from investors including Semantic Ventures\*, Archetype, Will Price, Hardi Meybaum, Fredrik Haga, David Phelps, Jess Sloss, and Paul Taylor.

**Herd** is developing a collaborative terminal, or “co-terminal,” designed to simplify interactions with on-chain contracts. The platform enables users and artificial intelligence (AI) agents to collaboratively search, understand, and combine existing on-chain contracts to generate both on-chain and off-chain outputs. By increasing visibility and accessibility of smart contracts, Herd aims to unlock the potential of decentralized applications and simplify complex workflows in the cryptocurrency ecosystem.

Other Funding Rounds
--------------------

**Hex Trust** raised an **undisclosed amount** in a funding round with participation from Morgan Creek Capital\* and Injective.

**Hex Trust** is a fully licensed digital asset custody company that provides bank-grade custody services for digital assets and a range of solutions for financial institutions and the Web3 ecosystem. They offer services such as custody, decentralized finance (DeFi), brokerage and financing solutions, with offices in multiple countries including Singapore, Hong Kong, Dubai, Italy and Vietnam.

**The Game Company** has raised $10 million in a funding round with participation from Telcoin*, Paul Neuner*, BullPerks*, SingularityDAO*, NodeMarket, HyperCycle.

**The Game Company (TGC)** is an AI-enhanced cloud gaming platform that enables users to play a wide range of games on any device without expensive hardware or downloads. In partnership with platforms such as Steam and Epic Games, TGC has a library of over 1,300 games and provides a lag-free gaming experience through proprietary low-latency streaming technology. The platform integrates Web3 capabilities, launches tournaments, fantasy leagues, and earn-while-playing mechanics, creating a seamless gaming and monetization ecosystem.

**Multisynq** raises $350,000 in funding in a public funding round.

**Multisynq** is a decentralized sync network that allows individuals to monetize by selling their excess internet bandwidth to developers to create unified online experiences. It connects Synqers and Coders, allowing anyone to participate and earn rewards as a Synqer, while providing low-latency, perfectly synchronized connections for multiplayer games and applications built by Coders on the network.

**W Chain** raises $700,000 in funding in a funding round participated by Victus Capital.

**W Chain** is a hybrid layer-1 blockchain platform designed for global payments. By integrating public and private blockchain layers, it provides enhanced scalability, speed, and security. The platform supports high transaction volumes and is designed to simplify complex business processes and ensure efficient and secure transactions.

**Superlogic** has raised $13.7 million in Series A funding from Powerledger\*, Sangha Capital, 10SQ Capital (TenSquared), Nima Capital, ACTAI Ventures, Hyla, Liquid 2 Ventures, American Express Ventures (Amex), Galaxy Interactive, Mirabaud Lifestyle Impact and Innovation, Recharge Capital (Thematic Ventures), Dispersion Capital, Sanctor Capital.

**Superlogic** is a loyalty platform built using blockchain and AI technologies. It provides enterprises with tailor-made solutions that integrate seamlessly into existing customer relationship management (CRM) and loyalty management systems. Superlogic drives customer engagement and loyalty through innovative features and interoperable protocols.

**Reservoir** has raised $14M in Series A funding from Union Square Ventures (USV)\*, Variant Fund, Archetype, Square Peg, 1kx, Delphi Digital, Nascent, PTC Crypto (Palm Tree Crew), Coinbase Ventures, Spaceship DAO, THE LAO, Sapphire Ventures, Framework Ventures.

**Reservoir** is an open source developer platform that provides powerful tools and application programming interfaces (APIs) for building the next generation of non-fungible token (NFT) products. It integrates and standardizes the entire NFT market onto a unified platform, enabling developers to access comprehensive NFT data, create, store and fulfill NFT orders, and integrate trading capabilities into their applications. Reservoir supports multi-chain compatibility and aggregates liquidity from major NFT markets to facilitate seamless NFT trading across platforms.

**Domin Network** has raised an **undisclosed amount** in a funding round with participation from Animoca Brands.

**Domin Network** is a decentralized business network that connects software, hardware, and consumer behavior data on-chain using NFTs and DePIN rollup technology. It drives the development of an open data economy by allowing users to earn cryptocurrency rewards by sharing their consumption data. The Domin Foundation supports the ecosystem, introducing innovations such as multi-redeemable NFTs (mrNFTs) and ERC-6672, a standard for programmable NFTs.

**Textile (Tableland)** has raised an **undisclosed amount** in a mergers and acquisitions (M&A) funding round with participation from 3Box Labs.

**Textile** is a set of open source tools designed to integrate and extend Libp2p, InterPlanetary File System (IPFS), and Filecoin technologies. It provides developers with decentralized solutions for data storage, database management, and communication. Its Tableland project is a decentralized database that uses structured query language (SQL) to process structured data, providing developers with a native Web3 relational database that can be easily integrated into their stack. It allows developers to create and manage tables as on-chain assets, with customizable permissions and smart contract integration, aiming to introduce practical data management for applications.

**Keystone** hardware wallet raised an **undisclosed amount of funding** in a grant funding round with participation from the Avalanche Foundation.

**Keystone** is a cryptocurrency hardware wallet designed to provide secure, air-gapped cold storage. It is equipped with a 4-inch touch screen and uses QR code scanning for transaction signing, ensuring isolation from network connections such as Wi-Fi, Bluetooth, NFC, and cellular networks. This design enhances security by minimizing potential attack vectors. Keystone's firmware is open source, allowing the community to conduct audits and increase transparency. The device also supports multi-signature and advanced recovery mechanisms to protect assets.

**Beamable** has raised $13.5M in Series A funding from BITKRAFT Ventures\*, Defy, GrandBanks Capital, Solana Foundation, P2 Ventures (Polygon Ventures), Scytale Digital, Arca Fund, Advancit Capital, 2 Punks Capital, Permit Ventures.

**The Beamable Network is a DePIN that aims to reduce games’ reliance on centralized hyperscale cloud services. It provides a cost-effective and resilient alternative for real-time game support by decentralizing computing power, storage, and bandwidth, enabled by tokenized incentives. Beamable also provides an open, scalable game server platform with tools such as LiveOps, serverless backends, and Web3 integration to help developers build and scale online games.** 

**Olas (Autonolas)** has raised $13.8 million in funding from 1kx\*, Tioga Capital Partners, Sigil Fund, Zee Prime Capital, Spaceship DAO, Metropolis DAO, Very Early Ventures, Borderless Capital, Arkn Ventures, Generative Ventures, Keyrock, Perridon Ventures, Smape Capital.

**Olas** is a decentralized platform that allows the creation and co-ownership of autonomous artificial intelligence (AI) agents, facilitating the development of an entire AI-driven economy. By incentivizing developers, operators, and other participants, Olas coordinates the deployment of agents on multiple blockchains, promoting a collaborative approach to AI development. The platform provides an open source framework, Olas Stack, that allows developers to build off-chain agents and secure them on-chain, ensuring robustness and transparency.

**Klink Finance** raised $3.2 million in a round of funding from investors including Castrum Capital, Blockchain Founders Fund (BFF), UOB Venture Management, Master Ventures, Signum Capital, TechmeetsTrader, Taisu Ventures, MarsDAO, TRIVE Ventures, ChainGPT, Credit Scend, Gallet Capital, Trinity Ventures, Black Alpha Capital, Blockbase, and XVC (XDC Ventures).

**Klink Finance** is a crypto wealth creation platform that combines task-based rewards with high-growth investment opportunities. Users can earn daily cryptocurrency returns by participating in bonus pools, yield services, and completing tasks. The platform is secured by Fireblocks' escrow service and utilizes Chainlink's Verifiable Random Function (VRF) for fair on-chain draws. Klink Finance is available on mobile apps for iOS and Android devices. GOAT Gaming (developed by Mighty Bear Games) has raised $4 million in a strategic funding round from TON Ventures, Karatage, Amber Group, Bitscale Capital, Framework Ventures, Mirana Ventures, Folius Ventures, Sfermion, The Spartan Group, Sanctor Capital, Dune Ventures, Infinity Ventures Crypto (IVC), Gate Ventures, DWeb3 Capital, Ocular VC, Play Ventures, Next Web Capital, Presto Labs, Skycatcher, Razer, Ancient 8, Avocado Guild, KGeN, ReadyPlayerDAO, Everblue Management, Great South Gate (GSG), Gabby Dizon, Santiago R. Santos, and Grail eth.

**GOAT Gaming** is a Telegram-exclusive gaming platform developed by Mighty Bear Games with over 5 million active users, offering competitive and casual games with real cash prizes. The platform is powered by AlphaGOATs, autonomous AI agents that compete, earn rewards, and evolve. Its AlphaAI tool suite enables third-party developers to launch, monetize, and scale games seamlessly.

**Corn** raises $1.5M in a public sale funding round.

**Corn** is an Ethereum layer-2 solution built on top of Bitcoin that enhances Bitcoin’s utility by adopting Bitcoin when using gas fees in the decentralized finance (DeFi) ecosystem. Corn has launched BTCN, a hybrid tokenized Bitcoin backed 1:1 by native Bitcoin, giving Bitcoin holders a flexible option to use their assets in DeFi without relying on centralized intermediaries.

[coinlive_articles](https://www.coinlive.com/news/23-projects-raised-131-2-million-taproot-raised-30-million)
