---
title: "Tesla officially discloses BTC holdings for the first time, Musk fights for control of OpenAI"
date: "2025-02-11 08:11:16"
summary: "Headline▌Tesla officially disclosed its BTC holdings for the first time, a total of 11,509 BTCAccording to the 10-K document submitted by Tesla to the SEC, Tesla holds a total of 11,509 BTC, which is the first time that the official BTC holdings have been disclosed. It is consistent with the..."
categories:
  - "coinlive_articles"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "coinlive_articles"
menu: ""
thumbnail: "https://image.coinlive.com/cryptotwits-static/5a51f1f4477ee9e34e21fd509e4f600b.jpg"
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Headline
--------

**▌****Tesla officially disclosed its BTC holdings for the first time, a total of 11,509 BTC**

According to the 10-K document submitted by Tesla to the SEC, Tesla holds a total of 11,509 BTC, which is the first time that the official BTC holdings have been disclosed. It is consistent with the number of holdings previously disclosed by Arkham.

****▌******Musk offers $97.4 billion to compete with Sam Altman for control of OpenAI**

A consortium of investors led by Musk has proposed to acquire the nonprofit that controls OpenAI for $97.4 billion, further exacerbating his battle with the company's CEO Sam Altman over OpenAI. Musk's lawyer Mark Toboff said he had submitted the offer to OpenAI's board of directors on Monday. The unsolicited offer adds a major twist to Altman's carefully crafted plans for OpenAI's future, including turning OpenAI into a for-profit company and investing up to $500 billion in AI infrastructure through a joint venture called Stargate. Musk and Altman have previously fought a legal battle in court over the direction of OpenAI. "It's time for OpenAI to return to an open-source, safety-first era," Musk said in a statement provided by Toboff. "We will make sure that happens." An OpenAI spokesperson did not respond.


---

Market
------

As of press time, according to Coingecko data:

BTC's latest transaction price is $97,757.44, with a daily increase or decrease of **+0.8%**;

ETH's latest transaction price is $2,670.76, with a daily increase or decrease of **+0.9%**;

BNB's latest transaction price is $620.94, with a daily increase or decrease of **+0.2%**；

SOL's latest transaction price is 200.99 US dollars, and its intraday change is **-1.1%**；

DOGE's latest transaction price is 0.2562 US dollars, and its intraday change is **+1.6%****；**

XPR's latest transaction price is 2.43 US dollars, and its intraday change is **+0.4****%**.

---

Policy
------

**▌****Former NCUA Chairman Rodney Hood will serve as the acting auditor general of the OCC and has a positive attitude towards encryption**

According to Fox Business Channel reporter Eleanor Terrett, former National Credit Union Administration (NCUA) Chairman Rodney Hood will serve as the acting auditor general of the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC), and the appointment will take effect immediately. Hood has publicly expressed a positive view on cryptocurrencies. He said in 2021 that the cryptocurrency market is vital to credit unions and the entire financial services market, and believes that cryptocurrencies should be part of the credit union system, otherwise it will affect its competitiveness with other financial service providers. In terms of regulatory flexibility, Hood believes that "guardrails" should not be confused with "tough regulation."

****▌******SEC Accepts Application for Physical Redemption of 21Shares Bitcoin and Ethereum Spot ETF**

The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) has accepted an application to allow physical redemption of 21Shares Bitcoin and Ethereum Spot ETF.

**▌****U.S. Supreme Court Attorney Tom Goldstein Arrested Again for Failure to Disclose $8 Million in Crypto Assets**

Tom Goldstein, a well-known U.S. Supreme Court attorney, was arrested again for failing to disclose the crypto wallets he controlled. Prosecutors accused him of concealing $8 million in crypto transactions and transferring more than $6 million in crypto assets in the past five days, and determined that he was a serious risk of absconding.

Documents from the Maryland Federal Court show that Goldstein violated bail conditions and provided false information to the court. Prosecutors requested that his bail be revoked and that his behavior posed a potential social threat. Goldstein was indicted for tax evasion in January, accusing him of failing to report millions of dollars in poker winnings and misappropriating law firm funds to repay gambling debts, and suspected of maliciously evading $5.3 million in taxes. The case is still under further trial.

**▌****U.S. Democratic Congressman Maxine Waters releases stablecoin regulation proposal**

U.S. Democratic Congressman Maxine Waters released a stablecoin regulation proposal, proposing that the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC), the Federal Reserve, and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) regulate stablecoin issuers and require registered issuers to hold 1:1 reserves. Last week, Republican Congressmen French Hill and Bryan Steil proposed a similar bill, but advocated that the OCC regulate non-bank stablecoin issuers instead of approval by the Federal Reserve.


---

Blockchain Applications
-----------------------

**▌****Bitcoin Financial Services Company Fold Announces Expansion of Cooperation with Visa**

Bitcoin financial services company Fold announced the expansion of its cooperation with Visa (NYSE: V) to launch an innovative Bitcoin rewards card program, including the existing debit card program and the upcoming credit card product. The cooperation will leverage Visa's shared services and incentives to further enhance the rewards experience.

According to reports, Fold revealed that its platform features include Bitcoin purchases, early salary deposits, automatic "rounding up" of consumption to purchase Bitcoin, and tools to manage and grow Bitcoin assets. Fold CEO Will Reeves said: "Bitcoin is the next evolution of rewards, and this cooperation with Visa will further enhance the value we provide to users."

Previously, Bitcoin financial services company Fold announced the completion of $30 million in convertible bond financing.


---

Cryptocurrency
--------------

**▌****Grayscale applied to list Cardano ETF on the New York Stock Exchange on Monday**

Crypto investment company Grayscale applied to list the Cardano (ADA) exchange-traded fund on the New York Stock Exchange on Monday. Last year, Grayscale broke through the blockade of US regulators on Bitcoin ETFs. Although there have been related initiatives in the past, it has never launched a standalone ADA investment tool before.

However, the Trump 2.0 version of the US Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), which has shifted from regulating the cryptocurrency industry to seemingly embracing the cryptocurrency industry, has emboldened issuers to think about what they can pass. In recent weeks, Grayscale has also applied for Solana and XRP ETFs. These products will convert Grayscale's pre-existing cryptocurrency trust products into ETFs with a wider range of tradable products, while the ADA ETF is a brand new product.

**▌European payment giant Klarna considers integrating cryptocurrencies**

European payment giant Klarna CEO Sebastian Siemiatkowski said at X that Klarna will embrace cryptocurrencies, but has not yet determined a specific plan. He said that Klarna will not launch the buy now pay later cryptocurrency function, and said that the company still needs time to explore the best way to integrate.

Klarna is valued at $14.8 billion, has more than 85 million users, and an annual transaction volume of more than $100 billion. Its largest shareholder Sequoia Capital holds a 22% stake.

******▌********Solana expansion solution Solaxy has raised $19 million in token presale**

Solana expansion solution Solaxy (SOLX) has raised $19 million in its ongoing presale. Solaxy aims to ease congestion on the Solana network by processing off-chain transactions, and the team also plans to build a bridge between Solana and Ethereum. Bloomberg Analyst: Litecoin and Dogecoin Spot ETFs Have the Highest Probability of Approval According to Golden Finance, Eric Balchunas, senior ETF analyst at Bloomberg, published an article predicting the probability of approval of spot cryptocurrency ETFs in 2025. Among them, Litecoin (LTC) and Dogecoin (DOGE) are most likely to be approved, with probabilities of 90% and 75% respectively. Solana (SOL) is 70%, and XRP is lower at 65%.

**********▌**********Binance Bitcoin reserves shrank to about 618,563 BTC at the beginning of this month, and financial situation remains good

According to recently released exchange reserve data, the value of Bitcoin reserves of cryptocurrency exchange Binance decreased by about $355 million last month, while the value of customer balances increased by about more than $4 billion.

At the beginning of this year, Binance held 622,192 BTC in third-party custody and exchange balances, and this number shrank to 618,563 BTC on February 1. In contrast, the net customer balance increased from 575,296 BTC to 615,816 BTC, which means that the collateralization ratio dropped from 108% to 100%. Analysis believes that the exchange may be reallocating funds to generate investment returns rather than over-collateralization. It is worth noting that Binance's financial situation is still good.

---

Important Economic Dynamics
---------------------------

**▌****Spot gold hit a record high of $2,913.01/ounce at the beginning of the session**

Spot gold hit a record high of $2,913.01/ounce at the beginning of the session.

**▌****The probability of the Federal Reserve keeping interest rates unchanged in March is 93.5%**

According to CME's "Fed Watch", the probability of the Federal Reserve keeping interest rates unchanged in March is 93.5%, and the probability of a 25 basis point rate cut is 6.5%. The probability of maintaining the current interest rate unchanged by May is 73.2%, the probability of a cumulative 25 basis point rate cut is 25.4%, and the probability of a cumulative 50 basis point rate cut is 1.4%.

****▌******Trump signs executive order to impose 25% tariffs on all steel and aluminum imported into the United States**

On February 10, local time, US President Trump signed an executive order announcing a 25% tariff on all steel and aluminum imported into the United States. Trump also said on the same day that there were "no exceptions and exemptions" to the relevant requirements. (CCTV)

******▌********Goldman Sachs: Tariffs may have a longer-term impact on the US dollar**

The US dollar fluctuated slightly as the market reacted to a series of new tariff measures announced by Trump over the weekend. A 25% tariff on all steel and aluminum imported into the United States looks unlikely to be avoided like previous tariffs against countries. Stuart Jenkins, an analyst at Goldman Sachs, said: "We think they will have a more lasting impact on the dollar, and the market has not fully digested this."

**▌****Sam Altman responded to Musk's offer of $97.4 billion to control OpenAI: No, thank you**

OpenAI founder Sam Altman responded to Musk's offer of $97.4 billion to gain control of OpenAI on the X platform: "No, thank you, but if you (Musk) are willing, we will acquire Twitter for $9.74 billion."

Previous news, a consortium of investors led by Musk offered $97.4 billion to bid for control of OpenAI.


---

Golden Encyclopedia
-------------------

▌[**What is DeFAI?**](https://www.jinse.cn/news/blockchain/3707487.html) 

DeFAI is all about combining the decentralized financial ecosystem of DeFi with AI-driven analysis and automation. The market size of these solutions will soar from about $1 billion to $10 billion by the end of 2025. DeFAI is still in its early stages, focusing primarily on momentum trading similar to memecoins, so there is still a lot of room for rapid development. DeFAI represents a turning point in the Crypto asset industry, combining the decentralized spirit of DeFi with the computational intelligence of AI.

**Disclaimer: As a blockchain information platform, Golden Finance publishes articles for information reference only and is not intended as actual investment advice. Please establish a correct investment philosophy and be sure to raise your risk awareness.**

[coinlive_articles](https://www.coinlive.com/news/tesla-officially-discloses-btc-holdings-for-the-first-time-musk)
