---
title: "Musk may find that the Treasury Department violated regulations. Trump imposes heavy taxes on imported steel and aluminum"
date: "2025-02-10 08:10:14"
summary: "Headlines▌Trump hints that Musk found \"irregularities\" in U.S. Treasury dataTrump hinted that Musk's government efficiency team found irregularities when examining U.S. Treasury data, and suggested that this could result in the U.S. not having to pay some of the money. \"There could be a question, and we've been looking at..."
categories:
  - "coinlive_articles"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "coinlive_articles"
menu: ""
thumbnail: "https://image.coinlive.com/cryptotwits-static/07b72cdec631808c0037a35b9317568f.jpg"
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Headlines
---------

**▌****Trump hints that Musk found "irregularities" in U.S. Treasury data**

Trump hinted that Musk's government efficiency team found irregularities when examining U.S. Treasury data, and suggested that this could result in the U.S. not having to pay some of the money. "There could be a question, and we've been looking at this, about the U.S. national debt," Trump said on Sunday as he rode Air Force One to the Super Bowl. "That could be an interesting question because maybe a lot of things don't count," he said. "That way, we could have less debt than we think."

**▌****Trump: 25% tariffs on all imported steel and aluminum to be announced on Monday**

U.S. President Donald Trump said he would announce a 25% tariff on all imported steel and aluminum on Monday. The tariffs would apply to metals imported from all countries. But Trump did not say when the tariffs would take effect.

In addition, he said he would announce reciprocal tariffs on countries that levy tariffs on U.S. imports later this week. Trump said the tariffs would not take effect on the same day as the announcement, but would likely be Tuesday or Wednesday, but would take effect soon.


---

Market
------

As of press time, according to Coingecko data:

BTC recently traded at $96,854.30, up or down by **+0.5%** on the day;

ETH recently traded at $2,647.11, up or down by **+0.5%** on the day;

BNB recently traded at $619.81, up or down by **+1.1%**；

SOL's latest transaction price is 202.92 US dollars, with a daily increase or decrease of **+1.6%**；

DOGE's latest transaction price is 0.2512 US dollars, with a daily increase or decrease of **-0.7%****；**

XPR's latest transaction price is 2.42 US dollars, with a daily increase or decrease of **-0.1%**。

---

Policy
------

**▌****The number of executive orders signed by Trump in the first two and a half weeks of his presidency has exceeded the record of the previous president within 100 days of taking office**

According to ABC News, Trump signed 54 executive orders within the first two and a half weeks of taking office, which is more than any president since President Truman signed in the first 100 days of taking office. For example, former US President Biden signed 42 orders in the first 100 days of his presidency. ABC also counted that Trump set another record, the number of executive orders canceled by the previous government is the largest since President Roosevelt. As of press time, Trump has canceled 91 executive orders of the previous President Biden.


---

Blockchain Applications
-----------------------

**▌****Privacy Project DarkFi Launches Alpha Version of Its App**

DarkFi, a privacy-focused crypto project started by early Bitcoin developer Amir Taaki, has released an alpha version of its app. This marks the latest release for this community of coders, artists, and technologists who have been quietly tinkering in the shadows for years. Taaki released a pre-development version of the app last fall, which was basically a completely anonymous IRC (Internet Relay Chat) application. However, Taaki plans to grow it into a useful product garden.

"It will be very fast to start expanding and adding because we already have a lot of features, such as anonymous DAOs, wallets, blockchains," Taaki told Block Magazine in an interview. "All of this is already running, it's just not in the product. The platform's messaging component can run on Tor and is fully peer-to-peer.

****▌******Avail co-founder: Most current chain abstraction technologies will make the cryptocurrency ecosystem more fragmented**

Anurag Arjun, co-founder of unified chain abstraction solution Avail and Polygon layer-2 expansion solution, said that most current chain abstraction technologies will make the cryptocurrency ecosystem more fragmented. The technical founder said that each different blockchain base layer has its own set of security assumptions, which makes interoperability between chains challenging. Arjun explained:

"They have their own validators and cryptoeconomic security. Therefore, you have to create infrastructure called light clients, such as two-way light clients. This is the main bottleneck in general. The Avail co-founder added that bridging between chains is usually a multi-step communication process between blockchain networks, which is costly and has high security risks, while isolating users and capital into fragmented pools.


---

Cryptocurrency
--------------

**▌****pump.fun co-founder: Most technical altcoins have the same value proposition as Meme coins**

Pump.fun co-founder Alon Cohen said that most technical altcoins have the same value proposition as Meme coins, but they usually have low circulation, too high fully diluted valuations (FDV), and involve venture capital (VC) institutions, which often use retail investors as exit liquidity.

Cohen was responding to a tweet that suggested that the issuance of Meme coins by the pump.fun platform disrupted the price cycle of the altcoin market. Cohen countered that pump.fun existed long before the altcoin market fell in April 2024. He further explained the reason for the collapse of the altcoin market in April 2024: "In the last cycle, retail investors lost so much money that they will not easily come back to invest in the so-called "future of finance." "

Cohen believes: "Most people with jobs don't care about technology, they care more about personal satisfaction." They want to make some money in trading while having fun. This discussion on social media highlights the growing contradiction between altcoin investors who focus on the practicality of technology and traders who simply speculate and ignore practical application scenarios.

****▌******El Salvador's Bitcoin holdings reached 6,072.18, with an increase of 17 in the past 7 days**

According to Cointelegraph, El Salvador's current Bitcoin holdings are 6,072.18, worth about US$583 million. In the past 7 days, 17 bitcoins were added, worth about $1.633 million; in the past 30 days, 49 bitcoins were added, worth about $4.707 million.

**▌****Viewpoint: Dogecoin is no longer a "fun currency"**

According to the Global Times, the Indian Express published an article titled "Dogecoin is no longer a "fun currency"", which pointed out that two software engineers launched a cryptocurrency in 2013 - "Dogecoin" (a virtual currency with a dog emoji package), which means the fusion of memes (emoji packages) and Bitcoin, and also marks the birth of meme coins. What the engineers didn't expect was that in addition to jokes, "Dogecoin" later became a commonly used online trading currency. American billionaire Elon Musk expressed his support for it in 2023, and then the valuation of "Dogecoin" soared. As of January 2025, its market value has reached tens of billions of dollars.

Under the influence of celebrity effect and other factors, various meme coins (emoji package coins) have flourished. US President Trump launched his own meme coin, which is printed with his photo and slogan "Fight, Fight, Fight", attracting public attention and its market value soaring to billions of dollars. As a public figure, Trump was criticized by many people for being reckless - the meme coin market is volatile, and in the absence of effective supervision, the market has no complete protection mechanism, and investors face the risk of suffering huge property losses. With such high volatility and high risk, why are there so many people flocking to meme coins and investing crazily? Research by JPMorgan Chase Group shows that in the past decade, the proportion of people under 40 who invest their personal income each month has more than doubled. However, the financial system has certain thresholds, and there are many industry concepts and terms, which are not very friendly to less experienced investors. Cryptocurrency does not have this problem. At the same time, its ability to quickly see returns has further attracted people to invest. Although the meme coin market is hot, it remains to be seen how far it can go in the future. Relevant regulatory agencies should introduce corresponding policies to regulate various cryptocurrencies. At the same time, investors should also further learn and understand financial instruments to avoid investment risks.

******▌********Data: CHEEL, CONX, SAND and other tokens will usher in large unlocking next week, among which CHEEL unlocking is worth about 169 million US dollars**

On February 10, Token Unlocks data showed that CHEEL, CONX, SAND and other tokens will usher in large unlocking next week, among which: Cheelee (CHEEL) will unlock about 20.8 million tokens at 8 am Beijing time on February 13, worth about 169 million US dollars; Connex (CONX) will unlock about 4.33 million tokens at 8 am Beijing time on February 15, which is 376.3% of the current circulation and worth about 87.8 million US dollars; Sandbox (SAND) will unlock approximately 205.59 million tokens at 8:00 a.m. Beijing time on February 14, accounting for 8.41% of the current circulation and worth approximately US$80.2 million; Berachain (BERA) will unlock approximately 12.98 million tokens at 9:00 p.m. Beijing time on February 10, accounting for 12.08% of the current circulation and worth approximately US$75.9 million; Aptos (APT) will unlock approximately 11.31 million tokens at 8:00 p.m. Beijing time on February 10, accounting for 1.97% of the current circulation and worth approximately US$66.7 million; Avalanche (AVAX) will unlock approximately 1.67 million tokens at 8:00 a.m. Beijing time on February 16, accounting for 0.40% of the current circulation and worth approximately US$41.7 million; Polyhedra Network (ZKJ) will unlock about 17.22 million tokens at 8:00 a.m. on February 12, Beijing time, accounting for 28.52% of the current circulation and worth about 35.1 million U.S. dollars; Aethir (ATH) will unlock about 630 million tokens at 6:00 p.m. on February 12, Beijing time, accounting for 10.21% of the current circulation and worth about 24.5 million U.S. dollars; Starknet (STRK) will unlock about 64 million tokens at 8:00 a.m. on February 15, Beijing time, accounting for 2.48% of the current circulation and worth about 15.7 million U.S. dollars. Sei (SEI) will unlock about 55.56 million tokens at 8:00 p.m. on February 15, Beijing time, accounting for 1.25% of the current circulation and worth about 12.7 million U.S. dollars.

---

Important Economic Dynamics
---------------------------

******▌********Sam Altman: The cost of using a certain level of AI drops about 10 times every 12 months**

On February 10, at 5 a.m. today, OpenAI CEO Sam Altman published an in-depth article "Three Observations" on his personal blog. It mainly made three observations on the AI ​​world: the intelligence level of an AI model is roughly equal to the logarithm of the resources used to train and run it; the cost of using a certain level of AI drops about 10 times every 12 months, and lower prices will bring more use; the socioeconomic value created by linearly growing intelligence is super-exponential growth. The article also specifically emphasized that OpenAI is making every effort to deploy AI Agents, and these tens of thousands of intelligent agents will eventually be widely used and become virtual colleagues in various business scenarios. The performance of primary agents may be worse, but they will still penetrate into various fields to reshape the world economy. (AIGC Open Community)

**▌****Barclays: US inflation rate will increase by 0.2 percentage points in the next year**

Michael Pound, head of global inflation-related research at Barclays, said that the prices of inflation-indexed bonds reflect that the US inflation rate will increase by 0.2 percentage points in the next year, of which about a quarter is caused by gasoline.


---

Golden Encyclopedia
-------------------

▌[**What is chain abstraction?**](https://www.jinse.cn/blockchain/3702852.html) 

Chain abstraction in blockchain works by providing a single interface that enables users and developers to interact with multiple blockchains without having to manage the complexity of each individual chain. Chain abstraction solutions are still in development and many companies are working on solving the problem. At present, how this all works is not an exact science, but multi-chain solutions may allow users to use Web3 seamlessly from a single account.

**Disclaimer: As a blockchain information platform, Golden Finance publishes articles for information reference only and is not intended as actual investment advice. Please establish the correct investment concept and be sure to increase risk awareness.**

[coinlive_articles](https://www.coinlive.com/news/musk-may-find-that-the-treasury-department-violated-regulations-trump)
