---
title: "TRUMP coins suck away liquidity, and PI coins take away the remaining moral \"superiority\""
date: "2025-02-12 18:33:45"
summary: "Author: Haotian1) The fermentation of PI coins in the sinking market has given many Crypto practitioners an inexplicable sense of moral \"superiority\", and almost all of them have been confused by the slogan \"one PI one BTC\" by the aunts and uncles around them.Well, yes, everyone knows that it is..."
categories:
  - "coinlive_articles"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "coinlive_articles"
menu: ""
thumbnail: "https://image.coinlive.com/cryptotwits-static/a4730f15f1c7ad36a24b8512973e093e.jpg"
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Author: Haotian

1) The fermentation of PI coins in the sinking market has given many Crypto practitioners an inexplicable sense of moral "superiority", and almost all of them have been confused by the slogan "one PI one BTC" by the aunts and uncles around them.

Well, yes, everyone knows that it is the CX slogan, and thinks that people in the sinking market are stupid, but in fact, in the eyes of many people, people who play with capital plates and people who rush to the local dog on the chain are essentially no different. Being in the game, everyone also knows that it is a "run fast" game, and they all think they can run faster than others. There is no need to ridicule, if you don't like it, just don't play it.

2) The greater the online public opinion response to the exchange's listing, the more it exposes the aesthetics and moral integrity of the exchange's listing. The surge of negative emotions actually shows that the liquidity in the market is really on the verge of exhaustion. Everyone is losing money, and the emotional bombardment is directed at the exchange. If it is a bull market, when liquidity is abundant, I am afraid no one will care;

3) The period when the exchange's listing of coins becomes the focus of the topic is really weak. No matter what is done, it is full of noise. The original significance of the listing group is to review the value of the project and give high-quality projects greater exposure and brand reputation. But now the exchange's new coin profit effect is gone, and even the brand and reputation are gradually lost.

No matter what kind of product and business considerations such as the introduction of incremental users behind the exchange's listing of PI coins, it cannot explain why the AI ​​Agent series of tokens, which have been hot on the chain for a long time, have a huge user base, and have a strong consensus, are ignored? Is it really that the Alpha project we are passionate about is not as good as the aesthetics of grandpa and aunt?

TRUMP's mess sucked away a lot of liquidity in the industry, and PI coin took away the industry's only remaining moral "superiority". The current industry environment is really too difficult. The key is that the real business interests behind the listing of coins on exchanges are very complicated. If you want to break through, there is only one way: to expand the final pricing power of the on-chain asset value (price) and make the on-chain world stronger.

[coinlive_articles](https://www.coinlive.com/news/trump-coins-suck-away-liquidity-and-pi-coins-take-away)
