---
title: "The next wave of AI Agent craze requires ordinary retail investors to change their investment thinking"
date: "2025-02-11 21:23:12"
summary: "Author: HaotianBefore the next wave of AI Agent craze arrives, ordinary retail investors need to \"reform\" their investment mindset. Personal suggestions are for reference only:1) Fomo chases \"fast-pass\" projects: If a project can be fast-passed after it goes online, it is either because the Dev is highly controlled, or a..."
categories:
  - "coinlive_articles"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "coinlive_articles"
menu: ""
thumbnail: "https://image.coinlive.com/cryptotwits-static/09837f31fc1d2b698a23d54cdd18567e.jpg"
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Author: Haotian

Before the next wave of AI Agent craze arrives, ordinary retail investors need to "reform" their investment mindset. Personal suggestions are for reference only:

1) Fomo chases "fast-pass" projects: If a project can be fast-passed after it goes online, it is either because the Dev is highly controlled, or a conspiracy group has seized the chips in the early stage. In this case, Fomo chasing the rise will most likely contribute short-term liquidity (rushing to the top of the mountain).

Even if the project continues to be popular and has second and third stage opportunities, the psychological test and opportunity cost faced by most people are not proportional. It is better to wait for the next wave of early Alpha opportunities, or look for potential projects whose value has not yet been discovered;

2) Invest purely based on Dev qualifications, Github Repo, and project narrative: For on-chain investment projects, there is no VC's "real money" investment to endorse them. Dev qualifications and the level of Github repositories have become the biggest reference benchmarks, but don't forget that Dev qualifications, Github stars, etc. are easily mixed with water. If there is really value, it is not too late to get on board after the market Fomo is over.

Learning from the previous wave of reshuffles, at least one high threshold condition for project building should be added to these value assessment factors. After all, the starting technology and operation thresholds for valuable projects must not be low;

3) The expected pricing valuation is locked at $300-500 million: You should know that the opportunity to find Alpha on the chain is great because the upstream exit pressure of VC and early participants is removed. If you rush to projects above 50m or even 100-500 million because of Fomo, it is irrational.

Unless you think that there will be a target with 500 million benign value support on the chain in the short term, or you are sure that this project has 3-5B space. Obviously, the short-term track on the AI ​​Agent chain is not mature at all. Only one @aixbt\_agent

application scenario has been implemented, but it also needs to further improve the upper limit of commercial imagination. In short, don’t bring the CEX coin selection valuation standard of 500M-5B in the previous cycle to the chain;

4) Positions are scattered and do not understand the warehouse division: The logic of warehouse division is to concentrate the chips on the currency with valuable support as much as possible, so that there is confidence to survive the big crash and retracement until the rebound. If you have not studied it, and there are many asset targets of various PVPs, you will most likely suffer a big loss due to too many junk assets. The key is that you are likely to lose confidence in the track and be persuaded to withdraw.

Appropriate position division and timely position adjustment may not capture greater profits, but they can stabilize the opportunity to survive for a longer period of time;

5) Always "pattern" a certain currency: Now that the AI ​​Agent industry is in its early stages of development, the certainty is very weak, and there are many asset targets. There will inevitably be a lot of shoddy assets mixed in the value assets. If you accidentally go all in on a certain junk asset, you will lose not only the principal, but also other better opportunities in the entire track.

In the early stages of the track, it is definitely right to use "scumbag thinking" in trading. Of course, it would be better if you can continuously raise your aesthetics and establish your own core value currency positions in the process. After all, it is not easy to be a scumbag for a long time in PVP.

[coinlive_articles](https://www.coinlive.com/news/the-next-wave-of-ai-agent-craze-requires-ordinary-retail)
