---
title: "Does it really mean that if a young player cannot become a P player, he has no chance at all?"
date: "2025-02-11 22:23:05"
summary: "Author: BITWU.ETH Source: X, @BTW0205A month ago, Trump token $Trump blew up the whole venue, and the hundredfold profit allowed many P youngsters to enter the A9 hall; starting yesterday, CZ @cz_binance called $TST to make the Binance Chain prosperous again, rising 1500% in one day, and many people made..."
categories:
  - "coinlive_articles"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "coinlive_articles"
menu: ""
thumbnail: "https://image.coinlive.com/cryptotwits-static/9d3d1b714f15569e231c5685fb989f76.jpg"
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Author: BITWU.ETH Source: X, @BTW0205

A month ago, Trump token $Trump blew up the whole venue, and the hundredfold profit allowed many P youngsters to enter the A9 hall; starting yesterday, CZ @cz\_binance called $TST to make the Binance Chain prosperous again, rising 1500% in one day, and many people made a lot of money again;

Behind the prosperity, there are more people's anxiety. The more real situation is: many people did not actually get the results, or more of them lost money on it, and looking at Twitter, they found that all of them made big results, which deepened their self-doubt;

Countless people looked up to the sky and screamed: Am I really not suitable for this circle?

In the past month, the most common voice in the industry we have heard in the market recently is:

On-chain is the real place for wealth to explode, and on-chain is the place where you can make the most money. If you can't be on-chain or don't have the ability to make money on-chain, you are the representative of the classical currency circle, the object of elimination and the loser;

I agree with this view halfway. At present, on-chain is indeed the place where wealth is concentrated. If you have the talent to P better on the chain, this is of course the best opportunity. If you don't have a good perception and ability to make money, you can try to study and research, in-depth research, and research without sleep, such as the "GMGN: From 0 to 10 Million US Dollars Meme Operation Guide" published by @haze0x

This kind of information is great; after learning, try a small amount, and you can basically see your talent and ability!

Of course, it is more likely that you will find that you are not suitable for the chain through in-depth research and learning. Is it really that you have no chance?

So, I also hope that everyone will think carefully about the following questions?

1. Is the chain really suitable for everyone?
2. As an ordinary person who really can't get opportunities on the chain, how can I get value in the circle?
3. Is there a universal track suitable for people in the circle?

1. I actually agree with half of this view:
-------------------------------------------

Everything must be treated with the right medicine -

I agree with it because this wave of opportunities on the chain is indeed a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity. I also admire friends like @0xSunNFT @yuyue\_chris @EnHeng456 who are smart, down-to-earth and courageous. I said a long time ago that I was very happy to see them make money. I don’t know if you understand this feeling. The opportunity of the industry is to constantly create new opportunities and let newcomers find opportunities. Rapid iteration not only eliminates the solidified hierarchy, but also allows outsiders to see the opportunities here. It is not exclusive to the elderly or the resource owners. Compared with most WEB2 industries, the fairness of WEB3 is here. As long as you work hard and have courage, the opportunity is here; this will make more newcomers fall in love with this circle;

So, I think that each of us should seriously think about where our personality and ability range is, and how to go about our own wealth path:

Second, if you don’t take wealth seriously, wealth won’t take you seriously;
----------------------------------------------------------------------------

I often see many people who don’t think twice and spend hundreds of thousands of dollars, but are unwilling to think for even a second about their own problems? How should we deal with this investment market?

To put it simply, most people are eager for quick success, unwilling to get rich slowly, and even more unwilling to think seriously about wealth for even a second, relying on others to get rich, relying on luck to get rich, and relying on information to get rich;

I call these people leeks!

Leeks don’t respect wealth. The market is so amazing. If you don’t take wealth seriously, wealth won’t treat you with recognition.

Three, another point, what is wealth?
-------------------------------------

Think carefully about what wealth means to us?

Wealth is the money you really take away from this circle, the change in your quality of life and circle in a real sense, which is called wealth. For example, after you get more results, you will have a huge change in your thinking, bet on your health to make yourself better, meet more partners who can start a business together in the future, experience all kinds of life you want to experience, and truly complete the accumulation and stable growth of wealth. These are called wealth!

If you just have A9 in your account, and keep P here, these wealth are not called wealth. I think it is more appropriate to call them: chips.

Fourth, the money-making rules that are truly suitable for most people in the circle;
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Next, I want to talk about an underlying thinking strategy that most people can do and get results. It is not the first time I write it, but I have new insights every time. I hope to encourage everyone:

If you are like me, relatively stupid, do not have a good trading talent, and are not so sensitive to the chain, then it is best to implement this strategy honestly like me;

Because this strategy does not require too high talent and intelligence, ordinary people can make money as long as you firmly implement it:

Five, the nature of the trading market and the optimal strategy for ordinary people;
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

We have figured out the nature of the trading market (a unique retail trading market), and summarized its characteristics (surges and plunges, short bulls and long bears),

Based on these characteristics, I developed the optimal trading strategy for ordinary people (a "left-hand in, right-hand out" trading strategy that combines the respective advantages of value investing and trend investing), and then clarified the two key points for the success of this trading strategy (cyclical trading market + a steady stream of funds), and how to ensure the smooth implementation of these two points (scientific position management + selection of Bitcoin-based trading products).

There are several important points in this:

**What is the optimal trading strategy:**

I think this strategy is universal,

because of the huge uncertainty of the leverage of relatively fast-in and fast-out contracts, and the hardship of MEME's P, value investing is the only thing that can be learned, while trend investing only needs to be executed,

In short, you can get results with diligence + resistance to human weaknesses;

**Why two key points:**

This is the foundation of my current foothold in this market, cyclical trading market + a steady stream of funds;

1) Cyclical: This market must be cyclical, and the most friendly thing to everyone is that the cyclicality of this market is very stable, relatively Myanmar A There has been no bull market in the past ten years. I think the bull-bear cycle in the currency circle will continue for a long time every three or four years. This is the cycle. In a market with a stable cycle, making money is as easy as taking something out of a bag; 2) A steady stream of funds: This is also very important. You'd better have a good cash flow to support the cycle, which can allow you to safely pass the bear market and have the courage to move forward at the bottom of the cycle. I wrote a paragraph the day before yesterday: Anyone who has accumulated a lot of wealth will have a feeling in the process of making money: "I'm not that awesome, the money is all blown by the wind, I'm just picking up money." Personal experience tells you that it's almost the same, that's what it means, but don't ignore one point - when it's your turn to pick up money, first you have to be alive, and second you have to have the capital to pick up money. A steady stream of funds is the foundation. As for where this steady stream of funds comes from, everyone has their own way, but it must be there; What is the root of smooth progress?

Scientific position management + choose Bitcoin-based trading products;

For position management, I recommend that you choose a Bitcoin-based management model. What does it mean? Please see my top tweet. Bitcoin, as the foundation of the industry, is a higher-dimensional existence and the best embodiment of the Linda effect. Therefore, in order to stabilize the industry, holding Bitcoin is a must. If you don’t have a good talent and don’t buy Bitcoin in the hope of taking a chance, then don’t think about it. You are the leek. In fact, 90% of people’s income in the circle cannot outperform Bitcoin in the long run. Most of the VC and fund income in the circle cannot outperform Bitcoin, so why don’t you hold Bitcoin?

In addition to Bitcoin, you can keep 20-30% of your positions and conduct some research on better targets. One is to maintain the relevance to the industry, so that you can quickly keep up if there is an opportunity, and the other is to satisfy your own trading desire. And once the opportunity comes, even if you earn ten or a hundred times, you need to quickly convert it into Bitcoin and wait for the cycle.

Now that you have a trading strategy and a trading product, it's time to show your skills.

**Judgment and experience of bull and bear cycles:**

Two sentences I often say:

First, I value the long-term investment bonus brought by patience and waiting, and second, I think investment is a matter that requires experience and luck. If we don't have such good intelligence, we must work hard to make ourselves live a few more bull markets.

To live through a few more bull markets, first, is to encounter more opportunities that can change your life and more chips to participate in; second, is to better perceive the market and make correct judgments;

First, judge the stage the market is in (I have written about emotional theory before), so that you can have a clear mind and not be blind, and wait until the right stage to buy and sell (buy in the "dead" period, sell in the "crazy" period), use "emotional theory" + "specific market" as the main basis, use "space + time" as the two dimensions of criteria, fill up the position before the bull market comes, use the selling principle of trend investment, and gradually clear the position after the bull market turns around.

At present, the market has obviously not entered the "crazy" period. If you have done a good job of position management and preparation like me, all you can do now is to wait patiently for the comprehensive characteristics of the bull market top signal:

1. On-chain indicators: MVRV high (3~4+), NUPL enters the ecstasy zone, and the floating profit ratio is extremely high;
2. Sentiment indicators: The fear and greed index has been above 80 for a long time, and the media and the public have discussed it a lot;
3. Technical aspects: Prices are far away from the long-term moving average, and the weekly or monthly RSI is extremely overbought; prices hit new highs but the volume failed to follow up or there was a divergence;
4. Overheated derivatives: leverage in the futures market has soared, the long-short ratio is unbalanced, and the funding rate is high;
5. Mainstream capital trends: institutions or whale addresses have sold heavily, and exchange balances have risen;
6. Macro and public opinion: easing has turned into tightening, major positive news can no longer push up the price of the currency, but negative news can easily cause violent fluctuations.

If these signals gather or mostly overlap at some point in the future, you should be alert to the risk of the market peaking and callback at any time. The real absolute top can often only be confirmed afterwards, but referring to the above indicators can help to stop profits in time or reduce blind pursuit of high prices.

The crazy period is generally short. When the above signals come, it may enter the falling area relatively quickly, but the decline will not be very fast. Generally, it is a slow cut, and finally enter the memorization area. Before the "dead silence" period comes, we must be consistent in words and deeds, and never be soft in the selling stage. If you don't know how to sell, you will lose a lot of profits, and when the bear market comes again, you will miss the second wave without good bottom-fishing funds;

This cycle repeats, as long as the game is well laid, once the bull market starts, the account will start the crazy profit mode. After each round of bull market starts, Bitcoin will rise at least 5-10 times from the low position, and it is normal for the copycat to rise 100 times; and our goal, or my goal, is just to double the number of Bitcoin once in a cycle, I think that is enough.

This goal is not high compared to the work I do, but the actual income is very considerable, and stable and beneficial to the long term.

Six. Conclusion
---------------

So I think if P has the talent, I think he is a one in a million talent, we must make good use of it, and after killing all the enemies, we must turn the wealth into real wealth, and he will become a local lord in the future!

If you don't have it, don't worry. Industry opportunities and difficulties are very beneficial to ordinary people. You have to believe that you are making the right choice. Don't be arrogant, impetuous and anxious. These emotions are your enemies in making money.

Do things that are beneficial to you and suitable for you. I have mentioned before that my wife, who doesn't understand any blockchain technology and chain operations, may make more money than most people. In two years, her principal has risen more than three times in this round, most of which comes from Bitcoin.

Another point is that the biggest advantage of this strategy is that you will not miss the dividends of Bitcoin in the future. Bitcoin is the most certain dividend, and the possibility of bringing you is real wealth and a peaceful destination.

After all, money will flow to people with a calm heart!

As for how much Bitcoin can reach in the future? 200,000, 500,000, or 1 million, I don’t think it’s important;

What is coming will come, just burn incense, drink tea, and wait for the flowers to bloom!

[coinlive_articles](https://www.coinlive.com/news/if-he-can-t-become-a-p-player-does-that-mean)
