---
title: "5 must-read articles for the evening | Overview of the current economic situation and monetary policy"
date: "2025-02-12 19:47:47"
summary: "1. Bitwise: Retail investors are in despair. What will happen in the future?There is an interesting dichotomy between institutional and retail investors in the cryptocurrency space right now. On the one hand, institutional sentiment toward cryptocurrencies is the most bullish I have ever seen. When investment professionals look at cryptocurrencies..."
categories:
  - "coinlive_articles"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "coinlive_articles"
menu: ""
thumbnail: "https://image.coinlive.com/cryptotwits-static/067b032fb283e4bd1ea43643160d5655.jpg"
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

1. Bitwise: Retail investors are in despair. What will happen in the future?
============================================================================

There is an interesting dichotomy between institutional and retail investors in the cryptocurrency space right now. On the one hand, institutional sentiment toward cryptocurrencies is the most bullish I have ever seen. When investment professionals look at cryptocurrencies today, they see this: institutional capital is being allocated to the space in record amounts through ETFs, and Washington has gone from being one of the biggest threats to cryptocurrencies to one of their biggest supporters. [Click to read](https://www.jinse.cn/blockchain/3708566.html)

2. Glassnode: How severe is this round of sell-off? Is it a normal correction in the bull market?
=================================================================================================

Last week, Bitcoin investors experienced dramatic price fluctuations. BTC prices initially fell to a low of $93,000, then briefly rebounded to $102,000, and are currently trading near $98,000. This hesitant price action is mainly a response to President Trump's threat to impose tariffs on Canada, Mexico and China, which provides investors with an uncertain macro backdrop. In addition, the continued strength of the US dollar has also led to a slightly tight liquidity environment. [Click to read](https://www.jinse.cn/blockchain/3708535.html)

3. Detailed explanation of Pi Network: How does the "brainless" electronic religion attract 60 million users?
=============================================================================================================

Pi Network was born on March 14, 2019. Its essence is an APP that claims to be based on Stellar and can "mine on mobile phones." The purpose of Pi is to build a highly accessible, low-cost decentralized digital currency network (which can be regarded as a light node concept like MINA). The mining method is very simple: users click a button once every 24 hours, and each 24 hours is a mining cycle, and they need to click again when it expires. The whole process is completely free. [Click to read](https://www.jinse.cn/blockchain/3708574.html)

4. The battle between digital RMB and stablecoins has just begun
================================================================

"In response to the defect of large price fluctuations of cryptocurrencies, some commercial institutions have launched so-called "stablecoins" in an attempt to maintain currency stability by anchoring them to sovereign currencies or related assets. Some commercial institutions plan to launch global stablecoins, which will bring many risks and challenges to the international monetary system, payment and clearing system, monetary policy, and cross-border capital flow management." In July 2021, the "White Paper on the Progress of Research and Development of China's Digital RMB" released by the Digital RMB Research and Development Working Group of the People's Bank of China described the development of stablecoins in this way. The rapid development of cryptocurrencies, especially global stablecoins, has brought challenges to the coinage rights of governments around the world. This has also become a basic background for China to develop the digital RMB. [Click to read](https://www.jinse.cn/blockchain/3708572.html)

5. Federal Reserve Semiannual Monetary Policy Report: Current Economic Situation and Monetary Policy Overview
=============================================================================================================

Jerome H. Powell Chairman of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System To the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the United States Senate February 11, 2025 Chairman Scott, Ranking Member Warren, and other members of the Committee appreciate the opportunity to present the Federal Reserve's Semiannual Monetary Policy Report. The Federal Reserve remains focused on achieving its dual mandate goals of maximum employment and stable prices for the American people. Overall, the U.S. economy has performed strongly, making significant progress toward our goals over the past two years. Labor market conditions have cooled from previous overheating but remain solid. Inflation has moved well toward our 2 percent longer-run objective, but remains slightly above that level. We are closely monitoring risks to both sides of our dual mandate. [Click to read](https://www.jinse.cn/blockchain/3708529.html)

[coinlive_articles](https://www.coinlive.com/news/5-must-read-articles-for-the-evening-overview-of-the)
