---
title: "5 must-read articles for the evening | Will Trump's inauguration trigger a crypto IPO boom?"
date: "2025-02-11 19:26:40"
summary: "1.Coinbase: Understand the current status, risks and future of AI agentsAI agents have become a revolutionary theme not only in the crypto space, but also in the broader technology space. The concept of autonomous entities that can analyze market news feeds or other external data and make real-time decisions has..."
categories:
  - "coinlive_articles"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "coinlive_articles"
menu: ""
thumbnail: "https://image.coinlive.com/cryptotwits-static/63f6e5cd698d8c4d8c9e393e621fe1de.jpg"
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

1.Coinbase: Understand the current status, risks and future of AI agents
========================================================================

AI agents have become a revolutionary theme not only in the crypto space, but also in the broader technology space. The concept of autonomous entities that can analyze market news feeds or other external data and make real-time decisions has captured the imagination of many institutional investors. Elsewhere, some tech industry leaders believe that AI agents could eventually replace the massive software-as-a-service (SaaS) industry. That is, a well-trained AI agent could, in principle, complete any task involving a digital interface. [Click to read](https://www.jinse.cn/blockchain/3708478.html)

2. Base sells ETH? Base founder refutes: holds more than 100,000 ETH strategic reserves
=======================================================================================

On February 10, 2025, Santisa, CIO of Lucidity, a crypto market investment and consulting company, posted on the X platform: Since the launch of the Base network, all its sorter fees have flowed to Coinbase. Although it is impossible to confirm whether these funds have been sold, it can be confirmed that these funds have neither fed back to the construction of the Base ecosystem nor achieved on-chain retention. In the absence of transparency, we have every reason to speculate that these funds have been liquidated. This behavior is obviously contrary to the decentralized concept of Ethereum. [Click to read](https://www.jinse.cn/blockchain/3708468.html)

3. Why 2025 may be the most glorious year for cryptocurrency
============================================================

Dan Morehead, founder of Panteral Capital, recently discussed the development of the cryptocurrency industry in 2025 with Raoul Pal, co-founder of Real Vision. Dan and Raoul have known each other for 25 years, and both have invested in the cryptocurrency field for more than ten years. Both acknowledged that 2025 could be an important year for the crypto industry.[Click to read](https://www.jinse.cn/blockchain/3708489.html)

4. Analysis of the path of crypto games from bubble to self-growth of real players
==================================================================================

This study includes two major focuses: analyzing the internal structure of the game segmentation track; and building a panoramic map of the current mainstream projects in the market. 

To this end, we screened the top projects with a market value of more than 50 million US dollars, and included large-scale games that have not yet issued coins but have a high degree of popularity and attention in the community. If some projects involve multiple fields, they are classified into the most relevant vertical track. [Click to read](https://www.jinse.cn/blockchain/3708487.html)

5.Bankless: Will Trump's inauguration trigger a wave of IPOs for crypto companies?
==================================================================================

After more than a decade of regulatory uncertainty and four turbulent years under the Biden administration, the crypto IPO window is wide open, thanks to the inauguration of the first pro-crypto president in the United States! With multiple major crypto companies currently rumored to be preparing for their public debuts, could this finally be the moment when crypto takes over Wall Street? Here are five top contenders for 2025 IPOs we’re watching.

[coinlive_articles](https://www.coinlive.com/news/5-must-read-articles-for-the-evening-will-trump-s-inauguration)
