---
title: "Golden Morning News: Liang Wenfeng's net worth surpasses Huang Renxun"
date: "2025-02-12 08:13:01"
summary: "Headline▌Bloomberg: DeepSeek's Liang Wenfeng's net worth surpasses Huang Renxun, estimated to be as high as $126 billionAccording to Bloomberg's survey of 7 startup founders and AI experts, DeepSeek's valuation is as high as $150 billion. Based on this calculation, Liang Wenfeng's 84% ​​stake will be worth $126 billion, surpassing Nvidia's..."
categories:
  - "coinlive_articles"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "coinlive_articles"
menu: ""
thumbnail: "https://image.coinlive.com/cryptotwits-static/c3852875197965dc4dc3a7f34af31856.jpg"
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Headline
--------

**▌****Bloomberg: DeepSeek's Liang Wenfeng's net worth surpasses Huang Renxun, estimated to be as high as $126 billion**

According to Bloomberg's survey of 7 startup founders and AI experts, DeepSeek's valuation is as high as $150 billion. Based on this calculation, Liang Wenfeng's 84% ​​stake will be worth $126 billion, surpassing Nvidia's Huang Renxun.

According to the Bloomberg Billionaires Index, if the above data is used for valuation, Liang Wenfeng, who holds 84% ​​of DeepSeek shares, will be among the richest technology tycoons in Asia.

  


****▌****


---

Market
------

As of press time, according to Coingecko data:

BTC's latest transaction price is $97,757.44, with a daily increase or decrease of **+0.8%**;

ETH's latest transaction price is $2,670.76, with a daily increase or decrease of **+0.9%**;

BNB's latest transaction price is $620.94, with a daily increase or decrease of +0.2%; 

SOL's latest transaction price is 200.99 US dollars, with a daily increase or decrease of **-1.1%**;

DOGE's latest transaction price is 0.2562 US dollars, with a daily increase or decrease of **+1.6%****;** 

XPR's latest transaction price is 2.43 US dollars, with a daily increase or decrease of **+0.4%**.

---

Policy
------

**▌****U.S. SEC Commissioner Hester Peirce: "TRUMP" and other Meme coins may not be under the jurisdiction of the U.S. SEC**

In an interview with Bloomberg on Tuesday, U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) Commissioner Hester Peirce was asked about President Donald Trump and his wife's official Meme coins TRUMP and MELANIA, and whether such cryptocurrencies fall under the agency's jurisdiction.

The newly appointed head of the U.S. SEC's cryptocurrency working group said that such assets may not fall under its jurisdiction. President Donald Trump launched his own Solana-based meme token TRUMP before the inauguration on January 20, and Melania Trump soon launched her own token.

****▌******SEC Commissioner Hester Peirce: SEC is waiting for chairman appointment before setting crypto agenda**

SEC Commissioner Hester Peirce said in a virtual speech at a Federalist Society panel today that it is "premature" for the SEC to begin setting a cryptocurrency regulatory agenda without a Senate-approved chairman in charge.

Mark Uyeda currently takes over as acting chairman, but the Senate is expected to vote on the chairman nomination of former SEC Commissioner Paul Atkins soon.

"Acting Chairman Mark Uyeda has done a very good job and the agenda has worked - we have not stopped working, but we estimate that if Paul Atkins is confirmed as chairman, he will take office soon and start setting the agenda," said Hester Peirce. Peirce added that the SEC is "trying to figure out" the way forward for formulating digital asset rules.

******▌********“My Big Coin” Founder Fined $7.6 Million for Cryptocurrency Fraud**

The U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) announced on February 10, 2025 that the U.S. District Court for the District of Massachusetts has issued a consent order against Randall Crater of Heathrow, Florida, the founder of “My Big Coin,” requiring him to pay more than $7.6 million in restitution to victims of the cryptocurrency fraud scheme.

The order also prohibits Crater from trading in any CFTC-regulated market, engaging in any transactions involving digital asset commodities, and registering with the CFTC.

The indictment shows that Randall Crater faces charges related to a digital asset company called “My Big Coin Pay, Inc.” that from about 2014 to at least about 2017, Randall Crater and other individuals operated a scheme to defraud investors by soliciting investors to invest in proprietary digital currencies.

********▌********


---

Blockchain Applications
-----------------------

**▌**  


****▌****

******▌******

******▌******


---

Cryptocurrency
--------------

**▌****WLFI: Launches Strategic Token Reserve “Macro Strategy” to Support Cryptocurrency Projects Such as Bitcoin and Ethereum**

World Liberty Financial (WLFI), a crypto project supported by the Trump family, announced the launch of its Macro Strategy, which aims to establish a strategic token reserve to support leading cryptocurrency projects such as Bitcoin and Ethereum and promote global financial change. The strategy will help WLFI enhance stability, promote growth and build trust, while working with traditional financial institutions to promote asset tokenization. The announcement stated that WLFI is working with a number of financial institutions to include their tokenized assets in reserves and provide transparency through public blockchain wallets. In addition, WLFI will work with partner institutions to carry out marketing and brand promotion activities to demonstrate its leadership in financial innovation. WLFI calls on the community to actively participate, and relevant proposals will be posted on the governance forum. ▌ Goldman Sachs' Bitcoin ETF holdings increased to $1.5 billion in Q4 2024 According to the latest 13F filing filed by investment banking giant Goldman Sachs on Tuesday, the company's Bitcoin ETF holdings increased to $1.5 billion in Q4 2024.

As of Dec. 31, 2024, Goldman Sachs held $1.27 billion (or 24.07 million shares) in BlackRock’s iShares Bitcoin Trust ETF (IBIT), the largest spot Bitcoin ETF by AUM, which means Goldman Sachs’ holdings increased by 88% from the previous quarter.

Goldman Sachs also increased its holdings in the Fidelity Wise Origin Bitcoin Fund, holding $288 million worth of FBTC (3.5 million shares). This holding is up 105% from the previous period.

Each quarter, institutional investment managers with at least $100 million in equity assets under management are required to file 13F reports with the SEC. These reports are required to be filed within 45 days of the end of each quarter and provide insight into managers’ equity holdings.

******▌********3iQ plans to list 3iQ Solana Staking ETF and 3iQ XRP ETF in Canada**

3iQ filed a preliminary prospectus with the Ontario Securities Commission and other Canadian regulators on January 28, planning to list 3iQ Solana Staking ETF and 3iQ XRP ETF on the Toronto Stock Exchange. If approved, they will become the first exchange-traded funds in the world to provide exposure to Solana and XRP.

3iQ is a global digital asset investment management company with $1 billion in assets under management. Toronto-based Sol Strategies announced on Tuesday that it has been selected as the collateral provider for 3iQ Corp.'s Solana Staking ETF. As of January 31, Sol Strategies and its subsidiaries held a total of 189,968 shares of SOL, with an average purchase price of approximately $179 per share.

********▌**********Coinbase Premium Index turned positive in the past week, and the demand for BTC from US institutional investors may rise**

According to crypto analyst Ali Martinez, the Coinbase Premium Index turned positive in the past week, and the trend of this indicator indicates that the demand for BTC from US institutional investors may rise.

**********▌************JPMorgan Chase: Despite the increase in total market value, the growth of the crypto ecosystem slowed down in January**

JPMorgan Chase pointed out that the total market value of cryptocurrencies increased by 8% last month to about $3.4 trillion. Despite the increase in total market value, the growth of the crypto ecosystem slowed down in January, with market value growth concentrated on Bitcoin (BTC), Solana (SOL) and XRP, while the decline in average daily trading volume (ADV) was common throughout the ecosystem. In its report, JPMorgan Chase said that decentralized finance (DeFi) and non-fungible tokens (NFT) had poor monthly performance, and multiple indicators deteriorated more significantly.

************▌************

---

Important Economic Dynamics
---------------------------

**▌****Former U.S. Treasury Secretary Summers: Inflation may break out again, and the next step of the Fed may be to raise interest rates**

Four years ago, former U.S. Treasury Secretary Lawrence Summers criticized U.S. fiscal and monetary policy makers for overstimulating the economy, leading to the biggest risk of inflation in a generation. Now he has warned again that price pressures are in danger of breaking out again.

“This is probably the most sensitive moment we have for escalating inflation since the policy mistakes that triggered serious inflation in 2021,” Summers said on “Wall Street Week” television program.

Summers noted that signs of tightness in the job market, including a sharp increase in wages in January employment data released last week, already provide the backdrop for a potential pickup in consumer prices even before the new administration takes any action. Since the data was released, President Trump has also raised tariffs on imported goods and threatened a slew of other tariffs.

“This is a moment where we have to be very cautious about inflation, even before the White House comes out with policy,” said Summers, a Harvard University professor and paid contributor to Bloomberg Television. He urged the Fed to remain vigilant to price pressures and argued that further rate cuts are likely to be off in the current cycle.

****▌******The probability of the Fed keeping interest rates unchanged in March is 95.5%**

According to CME's "Fed Watch", the probability of the Fed keeping interest rates unchanged in March is 95.5%, and the probability of a 25 basis point rate cut is 4.5%. The probability of maintaining the current interest rate unchanged by May is 78.3%, the probability of a cumulative 25 basis point rate cut is 20.9%, and the probability of a cumulative 50 basis point rate cut is 0.8%.

******▌********Former U.S. Treasury Secretary warns that price pressures may explode, saying that this round of rate cuts may be over**

Four years ago, former U.S. Treasury Secretary Lawrence Summers accused U.S. fiscal and monetary policymakers of excessive stimulus, which could trigger the largest inflation blowout in a generation. Four years later, he warned that price pressures are in danger of erupting again. "This may be the most sensitive moment for inflation to escalate since policy mistakes triggered severe inflation in 2021," Summers said. "This is the moment when we have to be very cautious about inflation, even before you see the policies coming out of the White House." He urged the Fed to remain vigilant to price pressures and believed that there might not be any further rate cuts in the current cycle.

********▌**********The United States has established a "Federal Secrets Declassification" working group to declassify documents such as the assassination of Kennedy**

Republican Congresswoman Anna Paulina Luna will lead a new working group that will be responsible for the "Federal Secrets Declassification" related work. It is reported that the working group will release confidential documents related to the assassinations of former US President John F. Kennedy, former Attorney General and Federal Senator Robert Kennedy, and civil rights leader Martin Luther King in accordance with the executive order signed by President Trump. In addition, the working group will also be responsible for investigating the list of people involved in the "Epstein case", unidentified flying objects (UAP), etc.

  


---

Golden Encyclopedia
-------------------

▌[**What is DeFAI?**](https://www.jinse.cn/news/blockchain/3707487.html) 

DeFAI is about combining the decentralized financial ecosystem of DeFi with AI-driven analysis and automation. The market size of these solutions will soar from about $1 billion to $10 billion by the end of 2025. DeFAI is still in its early stages and focuses mainly on momentum trading similar to memecoins, so there is still a lot of room for rapid development. DeFAI represents a turning point in the Crypto asset industry, combining the decentralized spirit of DeFi with the computational intelligence of artificial intelligence.

**Disclaimer: As a blockchain information platform, Golden Finance publishes articles for information reference only and is not intended as actual investment advice. Please establish a correct investment philosophy and be sure to raise your risk awareness.**

[coinlive_articles](https://www.coinlive.com/news/golden-morning-news-liang-wenfeng-s-net-worth-surpasses-huang-renxun)
