---
title: "More than 800,000 investors \"stand guard on the mountaintop\", Trumpcoin is in a mess"
date: "2025-02-13 20:20:05"
summary: "Since its launch in mid-January, the price of Trumpcoin, the official meme coin of US President Trump, has fallen from a high of $76 to around $17, a drop of nearly 80%.This rapid decline means that many investors are forced to hold on. According to a report compiled by blockchain..."
categories:
  - "coinlive_articles"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "coinlive_articles"
menu: ""
thumbnail: "https://image.coinlive.com/cryptotwits-static/fdd54e33115d20c818b174b341e967a8.jpg"
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Since its launch in mid-January, the price of Trumpcoin, the official meme coin of US President Trump, has fallen from a high of $76 to around $17, a drop of nearly 80%.

This rapid decline means that many investors are forced to hold on. According to a report compiled by blockchain analysis company Chainalysis and The New York Times, the decline of Trumpcoin has caused a total of 810,000 investors to lose money, with a total loss of more than $2 billion.

Unlike these investors who suffered heavy losses, early traders and insiders of Trumpcoin are estimated to have made a net profit of $6.6 billion. Chainalysis added that about 700,000 traders profited from Trumpcoin transactions.

Another analysis company Nansen pointed out that most of the early winners of Trumpcoin were almost large buyers, and 31 of them made $669 million in a few days. In contrast, most of the late losers are retail investors.

****Cut leeks****
-----------------

After material mining, it was found that the early buyers of Trumpcoin were mostly insiders. The first account to publicly bet on Trumpcoin was created 3 hours before Trump announced the issuance of memecoin, and its bet amount was as high as more than 1 million US dollars.

In the first few minutes of trading, a crypto wallet with the identification code 6QSc2Cx received a large number of new tokens at an opening price of 18 cents per coin, totaling 5,971,750. Subsequently, the price of this batch of memecoins soared and soon reached $75 per coin.

In addition, Trump Coin was created 12 hours before Trump’s announcement, which also provided insiders with ample preparation time.

**In addition to this group of early large investors, the Trump family is the one that has benefited the most. According to Chainalysis data, nearly $100 million in transaction fees have flowed to the Trump family and its partners, but most of the proceeds have not yet been cashed.** 

For some regulators and analysts who are cautious about meme coins, the huge volatility of Trump Coin is undoubtedly very worrying.

Corey Frayer, a former cryptocurrency adviser to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, said that Trump is participating in a cryptocurrency plan that harms the interests of investors; at the same time, the financial regulators he appointed will revoke protection for victims and may protect him and his family from regulatory impact.

[coinlive_articles](https://www.coinlive.com/news/more-than-800-000-investors-stand-guard-on-the-mountaintop-trumpcoin)
