---
title: "How much is the Super Bowl bonus pay? Here’s what winning (and losing) players make"
date: "2025-02-09 00:30:59"
summary: "(NEXSTAR) – Win or lose on Sunday, players on the Kansas City Chiefs and the Philadelphia Eagles will come home with a sizable bonus check. The details have already been worked out in the NFL’s bargaining agreement with the Players Association, which stipulates the Super Bowl bonus pay for the..."
categories:
  - "thehill"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "thehill"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

(NEXSTAR) – Win or lose on Sunday, players on the Kansas City Chiefs and the Philadelphia Eagles will come home with a sizable bonus check.

The details have already been worked out in the NFL’s [bargaining agreement](https://nflpaweb.blob.core.windows.net/website/PDFs/CBA/March-15-2020-NFL-NFLPA-Collective-Bargaining-Agreement-Final-Executed-Copy.pdf) with the Players Association, which stipulates the Super Bowl bonus pay for the winning and losing teams. In 2025, the players on the winning team will each get a bonus check of $171,000. The losing team’s players will get $96,000.

That comes on top of the $77,000 bonus both teams’ players already received for winning their respective conferences.

You don’t even have to step foot on the field Sunday to earn the extra money, but there are rules about who can receive the full amount. If you’ve been on the team’s roster for less than three games prior to the Super Bowl, you’re only entitled to half. Players who get injured during the regular season, and are therefore dropped from the team’s active and inactive lists, could also get a quarter or half of the full bonus (depending on how many games they played, how many years they’ve been in the league, the status of their contract, and other factors).

[Who is singing the national anthem at the Super Bowl?](https://thehill.com/homenews/nexstar_media_wire/5119439-who-is-singing-the-national-anthem-at-the-super-bowl/?ipid=promo-link-block1) 

The Super Bowl winners get even more than cash, of course: a Super Bowl ring, the Lombardi Trophy, and bragging rights.

The players should receive their Super Bowl bonus check within 15 days of the game, per the agreement.

The size of the bonus increases every year. Last time these two teams met in the Super Bowl two years ago, the payout was $157,000 for winners and $82,000 for losers.

The Kansas City Chiefs and the Philadelphia Eagles face off in New Orleans on Sunday. Kickoff is scheduled for 6:30 p.m. ET.

[thehill](https://thehill.com/homenews/nexstar_media_wire/5124148-how-much-is-the-super-bowl-bonus-pay-heres-what-winning-and-losing-players-make/)
