---
title: "DNC wades into Georgia election rules fight as new leader takes reins"
date: "2025-02-08 01:41:02"
summary: "The Democratic National Committee (DNC) is intervening in the case against Georgia’s State of Elections Board, citing concerns with efforts to block Republican-proposed rules. “To the great annoyance of MAGA Republicans in Georgia, the DNC is making it clear: there are no off-days when it comes to protecting democracy. Politicians..."
categories:
  - "thehill"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "thehill"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The Democratic National Committee (DNC) is intervening in the case against Georgia’s State of Elections Board, citing concerns with efforts to block Republican-proposed rules.

“To the great annoyance of MAGA Republicans in Georgia, the DNC is making it clear: there are no off-days when it comes to protecting democracy. Politicians don’t decide our elections — voters do,” Ken Martin, the newly elected DNC chair, wrote in a statement.

“As Republican officials in Georgia have made clear, these new rules were made up by Republicans in the run-up to November’s election and don’t make our elections fairer or stronger. They are an attempt to sow distrust in our elections. Democrats are standing on the side of Georgians – the only people who should decide their state’s elections.”


---

### 2024 Election Coverage

* [2024 Election News](https://thehill.com/elections)
* [2024 Election Polling Data](https://elections2024.thehill.com/)
* [2024 Presidential Election Forecast](https://elections2024.thehill.com/forecast/2024/president/)

---

The DNC filed an [amicus brief](https://democrats.org/wp-content/uploads/2025/02/EVA-DNC-Georgia-Supreme-Court-amicus-brief-2-7-2025.pdf) in the case on Friday, arguing that the “Hand Count” and “Reasonable Inquiry” rules each violate the Election Code and exceed the Board’s statutory authority.

Democrats argued that enacting these laws would delay election returns from particular counties and precincts.

The filing is one of Martin’s first moves after his ascension to the helm of the party in a highly contested race. He is charged with bringing about a resurgence for the Democrats following a devastating November White House loss in addition to staggering failed congressional races outlining the party’s minority in both chambers of Congress.

[thehill](https://thehill.com/homenews/campaign/5132996-democrats-intervene-georgia-elections/)
