---
title: "Progressives pitching Cabinet-level peacebuilding agency"
date: "2025-02-08 03:21:01"
summary: "Rep. Ilhan Omar (D-Minn.) on Friday reintroduced legislation to establish a Cabinet-level Department of Peacebuilding, with the goal of cultivating a culture of peace at home and abroad. The bill is inspired by former Rep. Dennis Kucinich (D-Ohio), who proposed a similar bill in 2001, as did Sen. Mark Dayton..."
categories:
  - "thehill"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "thehill"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Rep. Ilhan Omar (D-Minn.) on Friday reintroduced [legislation](https://omar.house.gov/sites/evo-subsites/omar.house.gov/files/evo-media-document/OMARMN_004_xml%5B29%5D%5B1%5D.pdf) to establish a Cabinet-level Department of Peacebuilding, with the goal of cultivating a culture of peace at home and abroad.

The bill is inspired by former Rep. Dennis Kucinich (D-Ohio), who proposed a similar bill in 2001, as did Sen. Mark Dayton (D-Minn.) in 2005 and Rep. Barbara Lee (D-Calif.) in 2013.

“For decades, Senator Dayton and Representatives Kucinich and Lee stood on the side of peace, despite immense political pressure to do otherwise,” Omas, who’s been the subject or Republican attacks, said in a [press release](https://omar.house.gov/media/press-releases/rep-ilhan-omar-reintroduces-department-peacebuilding-act-continuing-legacy).

“It is the greatest honor to pick up this mantle and continue the work they began. Violence is not only destroying lives, but it is draining our resources. Every dollar we invest in peacebuilding saves countless more by reducing crime, conflict, and instability. My hope is that our future generations inherit a world that values peace more than we have valued war.”

The proposed department would be headed by the Secretary of Peacebuilding who would work across agencies to fund and facilitate violence reduction programs, community policing, restorative justice initiatives and elevate nonviolent solutions in both domestic and international policy, according to Omar’s office.

It is intended to work with non-governmental organizations (NGOs), tribal, state and local leaders to develop and implement peace-focused policies.

More than a dozen representatives co-sponsored the bill, including Rep. Rashida Tlaib (D-Mich.), who like Omar has vehemently opposed Israel’s war in Gaza.

[thehill](https://thehill.com/homenews/5133251-rep-ilhan-omar-peace-department/)
