---
title: "Comer investigating TOPGUN over reports of harm to pilots"
date: "2025-02-08 02:25:58"
summary: "Rep. James Comer (R-Ky.), chair of the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, is investigating the United States Navy Strike Fighter Tactics Instructor Program (TOPGUN) after pilots and instructors reportedly underwent physical and mental harm. Three F-18 Super Hornet pilots died by suicide following symptoms of traumatic brain injuries (TBI)..."
categories:
  - "thehill"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "thehill"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Rep. James Comer (R-Ky.), chair of the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, is investigating the United States Navy Strike Fighter Tactics Instructor Program (TOPGUN) after pilots and instructors reportedly underwent physical and mental harm.

Three F-18 Super Hornet pilots died by suicide following symptoms of traumatic brain injuries (TBI) that were possibly connected to their time as naval aviators, according to Comer.

The Committee is investigating an “internal” Navy project aimed at evaluating these issues, code-named Project Odin’s Eye.

“Project Odin’s Eye, reportedly initiated without formal approval from Navy Medical and Air Commands, raises additional questions about the Navy’s knowledge of potential issues and whether it is acting to mitigate these issues in a comprehensive and effective manner,” Comer shared in a statement.

He outlined his concerns with the efforts in a [Thursday letter](https://oversight.house.gov/wp-content/uploads/2025/02/Top-Gun-letter-Navy-Sec-0206251.pdf) to Terence Emmert, acting Secretary of the United States Navy.

“While elite and highly trained naval aviators and flight officers understand the high-stress, high-stakes missions they will undergo to safeguard American national security, it is imperative to ensure the warfighter has full and accurate information about health risks and the tools, both mental and physical, to safeguard their health,” Comer stated in the letter.

He urged Emmert to schedule a briefing with committee staff by Feb. 13, in addition to providing a copy of Project Odin’s Eye, amid a list of other documents by Feb. 20.

[thehill](https://thehill.com/homenews/house/5133148-comer-investigating-topgun-over-reports-of-harm-to-pilots/)
