---
title: "Trump says he won’t deport Prince Harry: ‘He’s got enough problems with his wife’"
date: "2025-02-09 04:25:53"
summary: "President Trump said on Friday that he is “not interested” in deporting Harry, who currently resides in Montecito, Calif., with his wife, Meghan Markle. “I don’t want to do that,” Trump told the New York Post. “I’ll leave him alone. He’s got enough problems with his wife. She’s terrible.” In..."
categories:
  - "thehill"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "thehill"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

President Trump said on Friday that he is “not interested” in deporting Harry, who currently resides in Montecito, Calif., with his wife, Meghan Markle.

“I don’t want to do that,” Trump told the New York Post. “I’ll leave him alone. He’s got enough problems with his wife. She’s terrible.”

In February last year, Trump [accused](https://thehill.com/blogs/in-the-know/4489119-trump-prince-harry-queen-elizabeth-uk/) former President Biden’s administration of “protecting Harry,” adding that he wouldn’t do the same if he wins the White House.

“He betrayed the queen. That’s unforgivable,” Trump told the U.K.’s Daily Express [in an interview](https://www.express.co.uk/news/royal/1870541/donald-trump-deport-prince-harry-joe-biden), adding that Harry “would be on his own” if reelected.

Trump, in his Friday interview with the New York Post, went on to state he thinks “poor Harry” is “whipped” by Markle.

Trump has [previously criticized](https://thehill.com/blogs/in-the-know/4189919-trump-says-he-would-love-to-debate-meghan-markle/) Prince Harry and Markle over their reported differences with the royal family. In 2023, he told radio host Hugh Hevitt, “I didn’t like the idea that they [Harry and Markle] were getting U.S. security when they came over here.”

The royal couple has also voiced disapproval of Trump over the years, with Markle calling the president “divisive” and “misogynistic” during the 2016 presidential race. Trump later called Markle’s comments about him “nasty.”

On Friday, Trump praised Prince Harry’s brother, Prince William, calling him a “great young man.”

Trump went on to praise Harry’s brother, Prince William, referring to him as “a great young man.”

The Heritage Foundation, a conservative think tank, [has probed](https://thehill.com/blogs/in-the-know/4050460-dhs-denied-request-for-prince-harrys-records-think-tank-says/) the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) for information about Prince Harry’s immigration status. The think tank alleged the department “may have improperly granted” his visa after the royal family member disclosed personal drug use in his memoir “Spare.”

In 2023, the DHS request was declined, but a judge is still considering the case, per the [Associated Press](https://apnews.com/article/prince-harry-records-request-lawsuit-heritage-foundation-06b45c7799f24313ebdd1849d050e3f8).

[thehill](https://thehill.com/blogs/in-the-know/5134441-trump-prince-harry-meghan-markle-immigration/)
