---
title: "‘Friends’ star David Schwimmer calls on Musk to take Ye off X"
date: "2025-02-09 21:46:43"
summary: "David Schwimmer, a star on the sitcom ‘Friends,’ called on billionaire tech entrepreneur Elon Musk to take Ye, the rapper formerly known as Kanye West, off of Musk’s X social media platform. In an Instagram post Saturday night, Schwimmer posted a few of the antisemitic posts that Ye wrote on..."
categories:
  - "thehill"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "thehill"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

David Schwimmer, a star on the sitcom ‘Friends,’ called on billionaire tech entrepreneur Elon Musk to take Ye, the rapper formerly known as Kanye West, off of Musk’s X social media platform.

In an [Instagram post](https://www.instagram.com/_schwim_/p/DF0_8pfyLt1/) Saturday night, Schwimmer posted a few of the antisemitic posts that Ye wrote on X on Friday, including, “Im a Nazi”; “I don’t like or trust no Jewish person and this is completely sober with no Hennessy”; “I love Hitler Now what b——“; “I’m never apologizing for my Jewish comments.”

“We can’t stop a deranged bigot from spewing hate filled, ignorant bile… but we CAN stop giving him a megaphone, Mr. Musk,” Schwimmer wrote in his caption.

Schwimmer noted that Ye has more than 32 million X followers, which is more than double the number of Jews in the world.

“His sick hate speech results in REAL LIFE violence against Jews,” Schwimmer added.

Schwimmer also criticized the lack of public response to Ye’s hate-fueled rant, many posts from which have now been deleted.

“I don’t know what’s worse, the fact that he identifies as a Nazi (which implies he wants to exterminate ALL marginalized communities including his own) or the fact that there is not sufficient OUTRAGE to remove and ban him from all social media at this point,’ Schwimmer wrote.

“Silence is complicity,” he added.

[thehill](https://thehill.com/policy/technology/5134739-david-schwimmer-requests-elon-musk-remove-ye-hate-posts/)
