---
title: "Democratic rep says Trump’s Gaza takeover idea is ‘ludicrous’"
date: "2025-02-10 02:25:55"
summary: "Rep. Ilhan Omar (D-Minn.) said she thinks President Trump’s idea to take over the Gaza Strip is “ludicrous.” Omar joined CBS’ “Face the Nation” on Sunday where host Margaret Brennan asked her about the recent Trump administration actions, including his controversial announcement that he wanted the U.S. to rebuild Gaza,..."
categories:
  - "thehill"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "thehill"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Rep. Ilhan Omar (D-Minn.) said she thinks President Trump’s idea to take over the Gaza Strip is “ludicrous.”

Omar joined CBS’ “Face the Nation” on Sunday where host Margaret Brennan asked her about the recent Trump administration actions, including his controversial announcement that he wanted the [U.S. to rebuild Gaza](https://thehill.com/policy/international/5127021-trump-us-takeover-gaza/), even if it means relocating the Palestinian people.

“That’s just plain out ethnic cleansing and genocide, that’s what he’s talking about,” Omar said. “The Palestinian people will remain in Gaza, and there is no support around the world for the ludicrous suggestion that he is making.”

Democrats have sharply criticized the president for his remarks, calling the takeover proposal “ethnic cleansing.” Rep. Al Green (D-Texas) has [threatened to introduce](https://thehill.com/homenews/house/5128061-al-green-donald-trump-impeachment-gaza/) articles of impeachment against Trump over the issue.

Trump met with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu at the White House on Tuesday. During a [joint press conference](https://thehill.com/policy/international/5127164-trump-netanyahu-joint-presser/) following the meeting, the president suggested the U.S. could help rebuild the war-torn Gaza Strip by taking it over and cleaning it up.

Trump didn’t provide details about who would be able to live there but [suggested](https://thehill.com/homenews/administration/5126689-trump-palestinians-resettlement/) the displaced Palestinians would not want to return to the war-torn region and could be permanently resettled elsewhere.

Omar argued that she believes the people in Gaza would likely want to remain in the region.

“I’m pretty sure most of the people in Gaza would love to remain in their homeland and be where they’re born,” she said.

[thehill](https://thehill.com/homenews/house/5134909-ilhan-omar-trump-gaza/)
