---
title: "Sunday shows preview: DOGE cuts leave feds reeling; Lawmakers race to finalize Trump budget bill"
date: "2025-02-09 04:50:57"
summary: "Tech billionaire and the anchor of the new Department of Government Efficiency (DOGE) Elon Musk saw his staffers attempt or succeed in accessing databases in various departments, supercharge a federal worker buyout program and shrink the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID) workforce this week. The constant attempts have left..."
categories:
  - "thehill"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "thehill"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Tech billionaire and the anchor of the new Department of Government Efficiency (DOGE) Elon Musk saw his staffers attempt or succeed in accessing databases in various departments, supercharge a federal worker buyout program and shrink the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID) workforce this week.   
The constant attempts have left federal workers reeling while groups of Democratic lawmakers protested the developments, including in front of the Environmental Protection Agency and Department of Education headquarters.

Over on Capitol Hill, Republicans are looking to hammer out President Trump’s [budget bill](https://thehill.com/newsletters/evening-report/5133646-trump-doge-johnson-super-bowl-spending-congress/). Senate Republicans already met with Trump at Mar-a-Lago Friday night. House Republicans [huddled](https://thehill.com/homenews/house/5131668-house-republicans-trump-legislative-agenda/) with Trump and Vice President Vance on Thursday where they said progress was made in the negotiation process. Speaker Mike Johnson (R-La.) said Thursday night that lawmakers will work through the weekend to crystalize the details of the spending package as legislators in the upper chamber are threatening to act on their own budget [proposal](https://thehill.com/business/5133363-senate-bill-border-defense-energy/).

Sen. Chris Murphy (D-Conn.) protested outside of the Treasury building earlier this week and has publicly criticized Musk and the actions of his DOGE aides, [saying](https://thehill.com/homenews/administration/5130248-murphy-democracy-risk-trump-administration-musk-doge/) there’s a risk to U.S. democracy and that people should be on “red-alert mode.” He is set to appear on ABC’s “This Week” where he will likely discuss how Democrats plan to combat Trump’s and Musk’s efforts to reshape the federal government.

Homeland Security Secretary Kristi Noem visited the detention center for undocumented migrants in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba on Friday. Noem, a former South Dakota governor, is [visiting](https://www.citizen-times.com/story/news/local/2025/02/07/ice-boss-kristi-noem-to-visit-asheville-to-meet-with-helene-victims/78342566007/) Asheville, N.C., on Saturday to meet with Hurricane Helene survivors. Since Trump was sworn in, his administration has revealed a flurry of executive orders targeting undocumented migrants and Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) agents have performed raids in numerous states. Noem is set to be on CNN’s “State of the Union” and “Fox News Sunday” where she will likely talk about her recent visits and DHS’ plan to curtail the number of crossings on the southern border.

Rep. Kevin Hern (R-Okla.) was in the marathon meeting with Trump, Vance and House Republicans on Thursday. He will be on NewsNation’s “The Hill Sunday” where he will likely discuss the House’s budget plan as the GOP works to advance the president’s legislative agenda.

All of these topics and more will likely be discussed on this week’s Sunday talk shows:

**NewsNation’s “The Hill Sunday:”** Delaware Gov. Matt Meyer (D) and John Yoo; a law professor at UC Berkeley & former DOJ official in the Bush Administration; Rep. Kevin Hern (R-Okla.).

**ABC’s “This Week:”** Sen. Chris Murphy (D-Conn.); Rep. Mike Turner (R-Ohio).

**NBC’s “Meet the Press:”** National security adviser Mike Waltz; Sen. Andy Kim (D-N.J.).

**CNN’s “State of the Union:”** Homeland Security Secretary Kristi Noem; Sen. Cory Booker (D-N.J.).

**CBS’ “Face the Nation:”** Sen. Bill Hagerty (R-Tenn.); Reps. Ilhan Omar (D-Minn.), and Mike McCaul (R-Texas).

**“Fox News Sunday:”** Noem; House Speaker Mike Johnson (R-La.); Sharon Landry, wife of Louisiana Gov. Jeff Landry (R).

**FOX’s “Sunday Morning Futures:”** Secretary of Defense Pete Hegseth; White House Deputy Chief of Staff Stephen Miller; Israeli President Isaac Herzog; incoming U.S. Ambassador to Israel Mike Huckabee; former U.S. Ambassador to the U.K. Woody Johnson.

[thehill](https://thehill.com/homenews/sunday-talk-shows/5134459-sunday-shows-preview-doge-cuts-leave-feds-reeling-lawmakers-race-to-finalize-trump-budget-bill/)
