---
title: "Democratic senator: We are on ‘the cusp’ of a constitutional crisis"
date: "2025-02-10 00:11:00"
summary: "Democratic Senator Andy Kim (N.J.) argued that his party is ready to take a stand against President Trump’s recent actions and believes the United States is on “the cusp” of a constitutional crisis. Kim joined NBC’s “Meet the Press” on Sunday, where he was asked about Democrats’ plan as they..."
categories:
  - "thehill"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "thehill"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Democratic Senator Andy Kim (N.J.) argued that his party is ready to take a stand against President Trump’s recent actions and believes the United States is on “the cusp” of a constitutional crisis.

Kim joined NBC’s “Meet the Press” on Sunday, where he was asked about Democrats’ plan as they react to Trump’s executive orders and actions. He argued that his party is ready to shut down the federal government over various actions, including shuttering the U.S. International Agency for Development and Elon Musk’s “Department of Government Efficiency” (DOGE) having access to the federal payment system.” Funding is scheduled to expire on March 14.

“I’ve worked in government. I’ve worked through multiple government shutdowns. I would be the last person who would want to get to that stage, but we are at a point where we are basically on the cusp of a constitutional crisis,” Kim said. “Seeing this administration taking steps that are so clearly illegal.”

“Until we see a change in that behavior, we should not allow and condone that, nor should we assist in that,” he continued.

Trump has received sharp criticism over the administration’s recent actions, including saying he wants to take over Gaza. Some Democrats have called it “ethnic cleansing” and say it’s a distraction from all of the action within federal agencies.

Last weekend, DOGE officials gained access to the Treasury Department’s federal payment system, which controls $6 trillion annually and has access to Americans’ tax records.

Kim was upset with the administration’s actions and said he and fellow Democrats would be taking a stand.

“I cannot support efforts that will continue this lawlessness that we’re seeing when it comes to this administration’s actions,” he said. “And for us to be able to support government funding in that way only for them to turn it around, to dismantle the government. That is not something that should be allowed.”

[thehill](https://thehill.com/homenews/administration/5134797-andy-kim-government-shutdown-trump-musk/)
