---
title: "Trump: Super Bowl teams ’embody the best of the American Dream’"
date: "2025-02-10 06:05:55"
summary: "President Trump said the two teams in this year’s Super Bowl “embody the best of the American Dream” in a Sunday message. “I look forward to joining the fans in New Orleans for Super Bowl LIX to cheer on two great teams—the Kansas City Chiefs and the Philadelphia Eagles—as they..."
categories:
  - "thehill"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "thehill"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

President Trump said the two teams in this year’s Super Bowl “embody the best of the American Dream” in a Sunday message.

“I look forward to joining the fans in New Orleans for Super Bowl LIX to cheer on two great teams—the Kansas City Chiefs and the Philadelphia Eagles—as they battle for the National Football League’s Vince Lombardi Trophy,” read the message from Trump.

“The coaches, players, and team staff on the field tonight represent the best of the best in professional football, but they also embody the best of the American Dream,” said Trump.

Sunday’s game between the Philadelphia Eagles and the Kansas City Chiefs is expected to [be attended by](https://thehill.com/homenews/administration/5125557-donald-trump-super-bowl-chiefs-eagles-2025/) the president. Kickoff at New Orleans’s Caesars Superdome is set for 6:30 p.m. EST, and the Chiefs are aiming for a third win in three years.

“Football is America’s most popular sport—for good reason—it fosters a sense of national unity, bringing families, friends, and fans together and strengthening communities,” said Trump.

“This annual tradition transcends our differences and personifies our shared patriotic values of family, faith, and freedom heroically defended by our military service members, law enforcement officers, and first responders. We value their devotion to protecting our great Nation and salute their selfless service.”

Trump also shared [his excitement](https://thehill.com/homenews/administration/5132342-donald-trump-super-bowl-chiefs-eagles/) for the Super Bowl on Truth Social two days earlier.

“Two great Quarterbacks in this game. Also, an unbelievable running back, and the absolute best tight end in football (Ever!). Incredible coaching,” the president said on social media.

[thehill](https://thehill.com/blogs/in-the-know/5135209-trump-super-bowl-teams-embody-the-best-of-the-american-dream/)
