---
title: "Ye’s X account deleted after antisemitic posts"
date: "2025-02-10 23:31:13"
summary: "Ye, the rapper formerly known as Kanye West, has left the social media platform X after a days-long posting spree that included multiple antisemitic comments. It is unclear whether X deactivated Ye’s account or if he willingly deleted it, but the rapper did reportedly post a final message Sunday night..."
categories:
  - "thehill"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "thehill"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Ye, the rapper formerly known as Kanye West, has left the social media platform X after a days-long posting spree that included multiple antisemitic comments.

It is unclear whether X deactivated Ye’s account or if he willingly deleted it, but the rapper did reportedly post a final message Sunday night stating he was “logging out of Twitter.”

“I appreciate Elon [Musk] for allowing me to vent,” [he wrote Sunday](https://x.com/Kurrco/status/1888798207205061116/photo/1), according to screenshots on the platform and multiple media reports. “It has been very cathartic to use the world as a sounding board. It was like an Ayahuasca trip. Love all of you who gave me your energy and attention. To we connect again…Good afternoon and goodnight.”

The @kanyewest account on X, which had more than 33 million followers, now reads “This account doesn’t exist.”

The message came just hours after the controversial rapper posted a series of messages during the Super Bowl game, including a swipe at global superstar Taylor Swift, who was shown singing to rapper Kendrick Lamar’s halftime performance. The set included Lamar’s hit song, “Not Like Us,” which was part of a diss battle between Lamar and Drake last year.

“WHY ARE WE LETTING TAYLOR SWIFT BE SEEN ON TV SINGING A SONG ABOUT TAKING A BLACK MAN DOWN AND ACCUSING OF THINGS THAT CAN TAKE A BLACK MAN DOWN FOR LIFE,” [West posted](https://www.forbes.com/sites/maryroeloffs/2025/02/10/kanye-wests-x-account-goes-dark-after-hitler-praising-rant-jab-at-taylor-swift/). “KENDRICK IS BEING USED BY THESE WHITE PEOPLE AND JEWS AND SO AM I.”

In the days prior, the rapper posted dozens of antisemitic comments, including one where he wrote, “NEVER APOLOGIZING FOR MY JEWISH COMMENTS.” In another one, he praised Adolf Hitler and described himself as a Nazi.

The remarks [drew backlash](https://thehill.com/policy/technology/5134739-david-schwimmer-requests-elon-musk-remove-ye-hate-posts/) from multiple celebrities including “Friends” star David Schwimmer, who called on Musk, the owner of X, to remove him from the platform

“We can’t stop a deranged bigot from spewing hate filled, ignorant bile… but we CAN stop giving him a megaphone, Mr. Musk,” Schwimmer [wrote on Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/_schwim_/p/DF0_8pfyLt1/?img_index=1) Saturday night.

“His sick hate speech results in REAL LIFE violence against Jews,” Schwimmer added.

Musk on Sunday [responded](https://x.com/elonmusk/status/1888677517923332517?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw%7Ctwcamp%5Etweetembed%7Ctwterm%5E1888677517923332517%7Ctwgr%5Ed8bd34ef0a63eb3d50f83a02651901afd495be95%7Ctwcon%5Es1_&ref_url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.hindustantimes.com%2Fworld-news%2Fus-news%2Fkanye-west-x-account-deleted-elon-musk-fumes-as-rapper-thanks-him-for-allowing-me-to-vent-against-taylor-swift-101739185100697.html) to one user calling for his ban from the platform, writing, “Given what he has posted, his account is now classified as NSFW,” which is often used as a warning for explicit or inappropriate content.

“You should not be seeing that anymore,” he added.

British news host Piers Morgan took a swipe at Ye Monday morning, writing, “So disappointed that Kanye West has deleted his X account… said nobody. From genius rap superstar to demented, vile, racist, anti-Semitic, misogynist, violence-inducing troll. What a sad, pathetic downfall.”

The Hill reached out to X for comment.

Ye has gone on several antisemitic rants in recent years, which at one point cost him his [partnership with Adidas](https://thehill.com/blogs/in-the-know/3702800-adidas-breaks-with-ye-after-antisemitic-remarks/).

[thehill](https://thehill.com/policy/technology/5135788-kanye-west-x-platform-exit/)
