---
title: "Murphy: Trump ‘attempting to seize control of power, and for corrupt purposes’"
date: "2025-02-10 23:41:01"
summary: "Sen. Chris Murphy (D-Conn.) said on Sunday that President Trump’s attempts to “seize control of power” were threatening democracy and causing a constitutional crisis with little precedent. “I think this is the most serious [constitutional] crisis the country has faced, certainly since Watergate. The President is attempting to seize control..."
categories:
  - "thehill"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "thehill"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Sen. Chris Murphy (D-Conn.) said on Sunday that President Trump’s attempts to “seize control of power” were threatening democracy and causing a constitutional crisis with little precedent.

“I think this is the most serious [constitutional] crisis the country has faced, certainly since Watergate. The President is attempting to seize control of power, and for corrupt purposes,” Murphy told ABC News’s Martha Raddatz on “This Week,” in a clip [highlighted by Mediaite](https://www.mediaite.com/tv/senate-democrat-claims-trump-musk-doge-takeover-is-the-most-serious-constitutional-crisis-since-watergate/).

“This is a red alert moment when this entire country has to understand that our democracy is at risk, and for what? The billionaire takeover of government,” he added later.

Trump ally and tech billionaire Elon Musk, the leader of the Department of Government Efficiency (DOGE), has in recent weeks [dispatched staff](https://thehill.com/homenews/house/5127932-gop-oversight-democrats-subpoena-elon-musk/) to multiple agencies to access databases, including the Office of Personnel Management and the Treasury Department.

Government officials have sought to limit DOGE’s access to data and computer systems have faced punitive action or been pushed aside.

David Lebryk, a top career Treasury Department official, [retired recently](https://thehill.com/homenews/administration/5119996-david-lebryk-retirement-treasury-doge-musk/) after butting heads with Musk allies on government payment systems. Lebryk’s retirement followed a clash over a request from DOGE for access to a payment system used by Treasury Department officials to disburse funds.

“The President wants to be able to decide how and where money is spent so that he can reward his political friends, he can punish his political enemies. That is the evisceration of democracy,” Murphy said Sunday.

Former Rep. Adam Kinzinger (R-Ill.) said [last week](https://thehill.com/homenews/administration/5129237-kinzinger-democrats-elon-musk-doge/) that Democrats have appeared “surprised and flat footed” after actions taken by Musk and DOGE on the federal government.

“I’m going to keep hitting this: the Democrats are THE ONLY political opposition. They had three months to prepare for these acts. And they seem surprised and flat footed,” the former House member said in a post on the social platform X.

The Hill has reached out to the White House for comment.

[thehill](https://thehill.com/homenews/senate/5135948-trump-murphy-democracy-crisis/)
