---
title: "Trump says Canada joining US ‘would be greatest thing they could ever do’"
date: "2025-02-10 07:31:13"
summary: "President Trump on Sunday argued that if Canada were to join the United States, it would be the greatest thing the neighbors to the north could do. “I love the people of Canada. We have a great relationship, but if they became our 51st state, it would be the greatest..."
categories:
  - "thehill"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "thehill"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

President Trump on Sunday argued that if Canada were to join the United States, it would be the greatest thing the neighbors to the north could do.

“I love the people of Canada. We have a great relationship, but if they became our 51st state, it would be the greatest thing they could ever do,” Trump told reporters. “And think of how beautiful that country would be without that artificial line running right through it. Somebody drew it many years ago with a ruler, just a line.”

Trump has repeatedly [reiterated his desire](https://thehill.com/homenews/administration/5123538-trump-canada-51st-state/) to see Canada become part of the U.S., which is something Canadian leaders have [repeatedly rejected](https://thehill.com/homenews/administration/5072926-trump-annexation-canada-trade-threat/) as a possibility.

The president also told Fox News’ Bret Baier in an interview that aired on Sunday that “something has to happen” and more is needed in 30 days after he agreed to pause in implementing tariffs on Canada for at least a month.

He added, “I think Canada would be much better off being a 51st state.”

“Because we lose $200 billion a year with Canada. And I’m not going to let that happen, it’s too much. Why are we paying $200 billion a year essentially in subsidy to Canada? Now if they are a 51st state, I don’t mind doing it,” Trump said.

Trump and Canadian Prime Minister [Justin Trudeau](https://thehill.com/people/justin-trudeau/)agreed to a pause in implementing 25 percent tariffs before they went into effect last week. Canada agreed to secure the northern border and work to combat the flow of fentanyl into the U.S., adding that it will implement its $1.3 billion border plan and agreed to take other steps to secure the border.

The agreement with Canada mirrored [the same deal Trump struck](https://thehill.com/homenews/administration/5122864-trump-mexico-delay-tariffs/) with Mexican President [Claudia Sheinbaum](https://thehill.com/people/claudia-sheinbaum/)earlier that day.

[thehill](https://thehill.com/homenews/administration/5135385-trump-says-canada-joining-us-would-be-greatest-thing-they-could-ever-do/)
