---
title: "Vance challenges courts, suggests they are going too far"
date: "2025-02-10 03:21:02"
summary: "Vice President Vance challenged the judges who are pushing back on President Trump’s executive orders, arguing they are going too far. “If a judge tried to tell a general how to conduct a military operation, that would be illegal,” Vance said in a post on X. “If a judge tried..."
categories:
  - "thehill"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "thehill"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Vice President Vance challenged the judges who are pushing back on President Trump’s executive orders, arguing they are going too far.

“If a judge tried to tell a general how to conduct a military operation, that would be illegal,” [Vance said in a post on X.](https://x.com/jdvance/status/1888607143030391287?s=43&t=yvJsmV0mu2913uNCsjBAcQ) “If a judge tried to command the attorney general in how to use her discretion as a prosecutor, that’s also illegal.”

“Judges aren’t allowed to control the executive’s legitimate power,” his post said.

Federal judges have [halted Trump’s sweeping orders](https://thehill.com/regulation/court-battles/5132610-judges-block-trump-executive-actions/) to reshape the U.S. government. They’ve issued several rulings blocking the plans from going forward.

Dozens of lawsuits have been filed challenging some of Trump’s most major actions, including on immigration, gender and federal employee issues.

The Associated Press [noted](https://apnews.com/article/donald-trump-constitution-courts-lawsuits-796543ab4a3d5589f47fd66fd9d6bfef) that it’s a familiar pattern, when Trump announces actions, lawsuits are filed and a federal judge will halt the plan.

Still, while the suits originated in Democratic areas and have fueled the party during the administration changes, they may find their way to the conservative Supreme Court, the AP reported.

A federal judge appointed by former President Reagan accused Trump of ignoring the rule of law.

Even as Trump and Vance push back on the legal challenges, the question remains about which case will reach the high court first and when that would be. It’s a vital question for thousands of federal employees and the country’s international standing.

[thehill](https://thehill.com/regulation/court-battles/5135004-jd-vance-courts-trump-orders/)
