---
title: "Musk doubles down on attacks on federal judges"
date: "2025-02-10 21:35:59"
summary: "Department of Government Efficiency (DOGE) leader Elon Musk is doubling down on his attacks of federal judges in the wake of court actions blocking multiple Trump administration efforts. In a Monday morning post on X, Musk replied to a user who noted that federal judges can be impeached by Congress...."
categories:
  - "thehill"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "thehill"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Department of Government Efficiency (DOGE) leader Elon Musk is doubling down on his [attacks](https://thehill.com/policy/technology/5134725-elon-musk-impeachment-demand/) of federal judges in the wake of court actions blocking multiple Trump administration efforts.

In [a Monday morning post on X](https://x.com/elonmusk/status/1888888746377965703?s=46&t=Om0UFqXJFpyOeqc2pv48Dw), Musk replied to a user who noted that federal judges can be impeached by Congress.

“It’s time,” the tech billionaire said.

Federal judges have temporarily halted several of President Trump’s sweeping executive orders that aim to reshape the federal government after dozens of lawsuits were filed challenging the president’s actions. The suits focus on various issues including immigration, gender and federal employee rights.

Those suits may find their way to the Supreme Court, which has a conservative majority.

A day prior, Musk called for the impeachment of the federal judge who [decided](https://thehill.com/regulation/court-battles/5134238-judge-blocks-doge-musk-treasury/) that the Treasury Department should not allow anyone other than civil servants to have access to the federal payment system. Democrats have sounded the alarm that Americans’ confidential information may have been breached when DOGE gained access.

Musk posted several times online, calling the judge corrupt and noting he “needs to be impeached NOW.” He also reiterated the same message that “it’s time” to impeach those judges who rule against the Trump administration.

Vice President Vance also [slammed the judges](https://thehill.com/regulation/court-battles/5135004-jd-vance-courts-trump-orders/), claiming in a post on X that they are going too far and don’t have the executive branch’s “legitimate power.”

Musk, who is the richest man in the world and has become part of Trump’s close circle after donating millions of dollars to his campaign, has been under the spotlight since the start of the new administration. He and DOGE have examined various federal agencies to cut spending, but questions remain about how far the department will go to further Trump’s economic and political agenda. His threats to judges could cause a rift between the executive and judicial branches of the federal government.

[thehill](https://thehill.com/homenews/administration/5135757-elon-musk-attacks-judges/)
