---
title: "DeepSeek banned from NY state government devices"
date: "2025-02-11 04:21:08"
summary: "New York State is prohibiting the China-based artificial intelligence application DeepSeek from government devices. New York Gov. Kathy Hochul (D) announced on Monday state government employees are banned from downloading the application on ITS-managed devices and networks, citing “serious concerns” about the platform’s “connection to foreign government surveillance and censorship.”..."
categories:
  - "thehill"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "thehill"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

New York State is prohibiting the China-based artificial intelligence application DeepSeek from government devices.

New York Gov. Kathy Hochul (D) announced on Monday state government employees are banned from downloading the application on ITS-managed devices and networks, citing “serious concerns” about the platform’s “connection to foreign government surveillance and censorship.”

Hochul noted specific concerns about whether DeepSeek “can be used to harvest user data and steal technology secrets.”

“Public safety is my top priority and we’re working aggressively to protect New Yorkers from foreign and domestic threats,” Hochul said in a statement. “New York will continue fighting to combat cyber threats, ensure the privacy and safety of our data, and safeguard against state-sponsored censorship.”

New York State Chief Cyber Officer Colin Ahern touted the move in a statement, saying the state government “will continue to defend New York from cyber threats.”

“Safeguarding New Yorker’s critical infrastructure, privacy, freedom from censorship are central pillars of Governor Hochul’s security and resilience agenda,” Ahern said.

Hochul issued statewide guidance in 2024 on the proper use of AI in government, which sought to find a balance between driving innovation and protecting privacy.

Dru Rai, the director of the state’s Office Information Technology Services, said banning DeepSeek is consistent with the governor’s AI guidance.

That policy, Rai said, “was established at her direction over a year ago to responsibly evaluate AI systems, better serve New Yorkers, and ensure agencies remain vigilant about protecting against unwanted outcomes. I commend the Governor for recognizing that this must continue to be the highest priority.”

DeepSeek, a one-year-old startup, [launched an AI model](https://x.com/deepseek_ai/status/1881318130334814301), R1, last month, which quickly drew comparisons to models offered by OpenAI or Google. The app surged to the top of the app store shortly after its release and sent U.S. stocks plunging.

The app has sparked concerns in the U.S. about its link to China and potential link to the Chinese Communist Party (CCP). The company is based in China but is not technically directly connected to the CCP. In China, however, companies are required to hand over data if requested by the government, further stoking fears over privacy and national security.

A bipartisan pair of lawmakers, Reps. Josh Gottheimer (D-N.J.) and Darin LaHood (R-Ill.), introduced a measure in Congress last week to ban DeepSeek from government devices, arguing the app “compromises users’ sensitive data.”

The lawmakers pointed to a security research study published Wednesday that found DeepSeek’s website contains computer code with the potential to send user login information to China Mobile, a Chinese state-owned telecommunications company that is prohibited from operating in the United States. The study was reported Wednesday by [The Associated Press](https://apnews.com/article/deepseek-china-generative-ai-internet-security-concerns-c52562f8c4760a81c4f76bc5fbdebad0).

The Hill has reached out to DeepSeek for further comment.

[thehill](https://thehill.com/homenews/state-watch/5136612-deepseek-banned-from-ny-state-government-devices/)
