---
title: "Democrats unveil task force to respond to ‘harm’ inflicted by Trump administration"
date: "2025-02-11 03:35:51"
summary: "House Democrats revealed Monday that they have created a task force to respond to the “harm” inflicted by the Trump administration. In a “Dear Colleague” letter, House Minority Leader Hakeem Jeffries (D-N.Y.) announced they were forming a Rapid Response Task Force and Litigation Working Group to further the party’s “ongoing..."
categories:
  - "thehill"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "thehill"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

House Democrats revealed Monday that they have created a task force to respond to the “harm” inflicted by the Trump administration.

In a “Dear Colleague” letter, House Minority Leader Hakeem Jeffries (D-N.Y.) announced they were forming a Rapid Response Task Force and Litigation Working Group to further the party’s “ongoing effort to push back against the far-right extremism that is being relentlessly unleashed on the American people.”

“We are engaged in a multifaceted struggle to protect and defend everyday Americans from the harm being inflicted by this administration,” Jeffries wrote. “As outlined last week, it’s an all hands on deck effort simultaneously underway in Congress, the Courts and the Community.”

Jeffries said he asked Assistant Leader Rep. Joe Neguse (D-Colo.) to chair the task force and said Reps. Rosa DeLauro (D-Conn.), Gerry Connolly (D-Va.) and Jamie Raskin (D-Md.) will be co-chairs.

The New York Democrat said the party wants to drive down costs of living for struggling Americans and will continue efforts to solve their problems. However, he slammed the Republican Party for “repeatedly” promising over the last year to make life more affordable while “apparently, they didn’t mean it.”

“House Republicans and the administration have done nothing to lower the high cost of living. The cost of groceries is skyrocketing,” Jeffries wrote. “Meanwhile, Republicans continue to launch far-right attacks on Social Security, Medicare, Medicaid, public safety and the education of our children.”

“The American people are counting on us to stop them,” he concluded. “Thank you for your continued leadership during this perilous moment. Together, we press on for the people.”

In [a “Dear Colleague” letter of his own](https://thehill.com/homenews/senate/5136221-schumer-trump-shutdown/), Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer (D-N.Y.) warned that there is a possibility of a “Trump shutdown” and reminded his fellow senators that they have the power to determine if the government is funded past March 14.

Democratic Sen. Andy Kim (N.J.) [also warned](https://thehill.com/homenews/5134820-andy-kim-democrats-government-shutdown-trump/) that his party was ready to shut down the federal government over President Trump’s recent actions, noting they can’t support the “lawlessness” that is happening.

[thehill](https://thehill.com/homenews/house/5136566-house-democrats-trump-administration-task-force/)
