---
title: "Judge extends government buyout offer amid push to strike down deal"
date: "2025-02-11 05:46:08"
summary: "A federal judge extended indefinitely the deadline for government workers to accept a government buyout, as a lawsuit to block the offer continues in court. U.S. District Court Judge George O’Toole heard arguments Monday over the legality of the offer, in which the Office of Personnel Management has pledged eight..."
categories:
  - "thehill"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "thehill"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

A federal judge extended indefinitely the deadline for government workers to accept a government buyout, as a lawsuit to block the offer continues in court.

U.S. District Court Judge George O’Toole heard arguments Monday over the legality of the offer, in which the Office of Personnel Management has pledged eight months of pay and benefits for those wishing to leave the federal service.

It’s O’Toole’s second extension for employees to take the offer, making a ruling just hours ahead of the original Thursday deadline to punt the timeline for taking the deal.

The Monday ruling gives federal employees more time to [weigh the unusual offer](https://thehill.com/homenews/administration/5128421-trump-administration-federal-employees-buyout/), as O’Toole is still weighing a request for a preliminary injunction from unions that would bar what has become known as the “Fork in the Road” program.

The buyout offer faces numerous [legal and logistical challenges](https://thehill.com/homenews/administration/5114890-trump-federal-employee-buyout-scrutiny/). Unions suing over the offer have argued employees might find themselves out of luck when government funding terminates in March, as Congress has not authorized the spending for the program.

They say the offer also violates the Antideficiency Act, which bars the government from spending beyond its appropriations and using money for purposes other than intended.

White House spokeswoman Karoline Leavitt said last week the Trump administration was glad the timeline for the offer was extended.

“We are grateful to the judge for extending the deadline so more federal workers who refuse to show up to the office can take the Administration up on this very generous, once-in-a-lifetime offer,” she said in a statement.

The White House has previously said that at least 40,000 employees have accepted the deal.

Democracy Forward, which is representing the unions, said in a statement it was pleased the court has “continued to pause implementation” of the buy-out program.

“Public service on behalf of the American people is not something to be bought and sold,” it said.

“People and communities across the nation depend on a non-partisan, committed civil service. It is important that the American people have the backs of the people who serve us all and that is why we will continue to pursue this case.”

[thehill](https://thehill.com/regulation/court-battles/5136860-federal-judge-extends-buyout-deadline/)
