---
title: "Trump says ‘too early’ to name Vance as successor"
date: "2025-02-11 06:01:10"
summary: "President Trump said that it’s too early to name Vice President Vance as his successor in 2028, saying that while his number two is skilled, so are a number of other people who could be future leaders of the GOP. In an interview with Fox News’s Brett Baier, Trump was..."
categories:
  - "thehill"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "thehill"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

President Trump said that it’s too early to name Vice President Vance as his successor in 2028, saying that while his number two is skilled, so are a number of other people who could be future leaders of the GOP.

In an interview with Fox News’s Brett Baier, Trump was asked if he viewed Vance as his successor and the Republican nominee in 2028 and he replied, “no, but he’s very capable.”

“I think you have a lot of very capable people. So far, I think he’s doing a very fantastic job. It’s too early, we’re just starting,” Trump added.

When Baier noted that by the time the 2026 midterm cycle rolls around, Vance could be looking for an endorsement, Trump shifted to praise Vance’s work so far in the White House.

“A lot of people have said that this has been the greatest opening, almost three weeks, in the history of the presidency,” he said.


---

### 2024 Election Coverage

* [2024 Election News](https://thehill.com/elections)
* [2024 Election Polling Data](https://elections2024.thehill.com/)
* [2024 Presidential Election Forecast](https://elections2024.thehill.com/forecast/2024/president/)

---

Vance is seen as the potential future of the MAGA movement in the Republican Party and has [quickly become Trump’s liaison](http://thehill.com/homenews/senate/5133547-vance-senate-trump-nominees/) to the Senate in the first weeks of the administration.

The vice president has been credited with getting swing vote Republicans to support some of the president’s more controversial nominees, including director of national intelligence nominee [Tulsi Gabbard](https://thehill.com/people/tulsi-gabbard/)and Health and Human Services nominee Robert F. Kennedy Jr.

Vance this week is in Europe to attend an artificial intelligence summit in Paris and the Munich Security Conference. He has also been tasked with overseeing a TikTok deal, and hurricane recovery efforts in the U.S.

[thehill](https://thehill.com/homenews/administration/5136930-trump-vance-successor/)
