---
title: "Johnson: Courts should ‘allow the executive and the legislative branches to work’"
date: "2025-02-11 06:41:01"
summary: "Speaker Mike Johnson (R-La.) said on Monday he thinks the courts should let the Trump administration and Congress do their work as they continue their efforts to reshape the federal government. Speaking to reporters on Capitol Hill, Johnson expressed support for the work that President Trump and tech billionaire Elon..."
categories:
  - "thehill"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "thehill"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Speaker Mike Johnson (R-La.) said on Monday he thinks the courts should let the Trump administration and Congress do their work as they continue their efforts to reshape the federal government.

Speaking to reporters on Capitol Hill, Johnson expressed support for the work that President Trump and tech billionaire Elon Musk are doing through the Department of Government Efficiency (DOGE) commission but said, “We’ll see” how the litigation proceeds through the legal processes.

“It has taken this level of audit from effectively an outside auditor — that’s what DOGE and Elon and the group really is — to be able to get into the systems and open the literal files and expose this stuff. And so, we are applauding that. This is what we have been wanting and trying to do for a long time. So, this is a good development,” Johnson said about the work DOGE is doing.

“I wish the courts would allow the executive and the legislative branches to work, but we’ll see how all that develops,” he continued.

Federal judges have temporarily halted several of Trump’s sweeping executive orders that aim to reshape the federal government after dozens of lawsuits were filed challenging the President’s actions. The suits focus on various issues, including immigration, gender and federal employee rights.

One federal judge ruled early Saturday morning that only certain civil servants are permitted access to the Treasury Department’s payment system, effectively barring DOGE from the system. Democrats had raised concerns that Americans’ confidential data could have been breached when Musk’s team gained access to the data.

The actions from the federal judges have appeared to anger Musk and the White House, with Musk responding on social media calling for the impeachment of the judge who blocked his access to the payment systems.

The White House also attacked the judge who made that decision, and Vice President JD Vance accused the judges of going too far, saying they don’t have the “legitimate power” that the executive branch has.

The comments have sparked concern among observers over whether Trump and his allies would defy the court orders and about the consequences of such a move on the balance of power across the government’s three branches.

Johnson, at the Capitol on Monday, was asked whether the White House should comply if a federal court, for example, orders them to destroy records downloaded from the Treasury Department before DOGE’s access was blocked.

Johnson responded by suggesting there is a process by which the White House could appeal a court order. He also said Congress would work to codify some of the changes that the White House has made through executive action.

“Well, look, there are appellate processes and all of that. I haven’t followed the latest on the litigation, but obviously, we have systems that have to work. I mean, you know, we have an order to the government, but we’re fully supportive of what the DOGE effort is doing and what the President is doing,” Johnson said.

“It’s a very aggressive agenda that was promised to the voters,” he continued. “Remember, he’s delivering on campaign promises right now.”

[thehill](https://thehill.com/homenews/house/5137001-johnson-courts-trump-administration-congress/)
