---
title: "Plane owned by Mötley Crüe signer Vince Neil involved in deadly collision"
date: "2025-02-11 20:51:07"
summary: "One person was killed, and others were injured after a private jet owned by Mötley Crüe signer Vince Neil crashed into another plane Monday at the airport in Scottsdale, Ariz., a suburb of Phoenix. A representative for Neil said the plane, registered to the singer’s company, Chromed in Hollywood, LLC,..."
categories:
  - "thehill"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "thehill"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

One person was killed, and others were injured after a private jet owned by Mötley Crüe signer Vince Neil crashed into another plane Monday at the airport in Scottsdale, Ariz., a suburb of Phoenix.

A representative for Neil said the plane, registered to the singer’s company, Chromed in Hollywood, LLC, was attempting to land at the smaller Arizona airport.

“For reasons unknown at this time, the plane veered from the runway causing it to collide with another parked plane,” Worrick Robinson, his representative said in a statement.

Neil was not aboard the plane, but there were two pilots and passengers aboard when the incident occurred. Robinson said it was a “rapidly evolving situation,” and no more specifics were known at the time.

“Mr. Neil’s thoughts and prayers go out to everyone involved, and he is grateful for the critical aid of all first responders assisting today,” Robinson added.

Neil’s plane hit another midsize business jet parked on private property, a representative at the Scottsdale airport [told The Associated Press.](https://apnews.com/article/arizona-private-jet-crash-scottsdale-airport-b3d54b61cda17a21c76a994a1b4eaf1d)

While the caused of the crash is still unknown, the representative said it appeared the primary landing gear of Neil’s jet failed.

His plane was arriving from Austin, Texas, and one person was inside the parked plane.

Two people injured in the crash were taken to trauma centers and one was stable at a local hospital. Officials were working to recover the body of the one person killed.

The area attracts many private jets for the Phoenix area, particularly during the Waste Management Phoenix Open golf tournament which was held a few miles from the airport.

The aviation incident marks the latest in a string of crashes in the U.S. in the last two weeks, including a [collision](https://thehill.com/policy/transportation/5115873-reagan-national-airport-crash/) between a passenger plane and an [Army helicopter](https://thehill.com/policy/defense/5115792-military-helicopter-dca-crash-what-to-know/) outside of Washington earlier this month that [killed more than 60 people.](https://thehill.com/policy/transportation/5115873-reagan-national-airport-crash/)

[thehill](https://thehill.com/homenews/state-watch/5137762-motley-crue-signer-vince-neil-plane-crash/)
