---
title: "Super Bowl halftime protester wanted to ‘highlight the human suffering’ of Palestinians"
date: "2025-02-11 23:31:11"
summary: "The performer in Kendrick Lamar’s Super Bowl halftime show who was detained after showing a Sudanese-Palestinian flag said he wanted to “highlight the human suffering” of Palestinians during the performance. Zül-Quarnaįn Nantambu, 41, spoke with NBC News after the incident, saying he was accepted about a month ago to perform..."
categories:
  - "thehill"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "thehill"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The performer in Kendrick Lamar’s Super Bowl halftime show who [was detained](https://thehill.com/blogs/blog-briefing-room/5135793-nfl-super-bowl-halftime-performer-detained/) after showing a Sudanese-Palestinian flag said he wanted to “highlight the human suffering” of Palestinians during the performance.

Zül-Quarnaįn Nantambu, 41, [spoke with NBC News](https://www.nbcnews.com/news/us-news/super-bowl-protester-hopes-trump-compassion-empathy-palestinians-rcna191576) after the incident, saying he was accepted about a month ago to perform in Sunday’s halftime show.

Nantambu was detained after attempting to show a combination flag with the words “Sudan” and “Gaza” written on it. The NFL said he would be banned from all stadiums and events for life, though New Orleans Police did not press charges.

On Monday, President Trump [gave a stark warning](https://thehill.com/homenews/administration/5137276-trump-israel-hamas-hostages/) to Hamas, who has paused releasing hostages, that he would undo the ceasefire agreement made with Israel if the Palestinian militant group doesn’t release the hostages.

Nantambu told the outlet that he sees some good in Trump, and hopes he will be “empathetic and compassionate to those who are suffering in Palestine,” even as the president says he [has a proposal](https://thehill.com/homenews/administration/5129814-donald-trump-gaza-strip-us-troops/) to take over Gaza.

Since the onset of the Israel-Hamas war, over 47,000 Palestinians have been killed, according to Gaza’s Health Ministry. About 1,700 people were killed in Hamas’s attack in Israel on Oct. 7, 2023.

Nantambu told NBC that his protest was inspired by Islamic faith, but also inspired by Lamar’s political performance.

During the halftime show, Lamar [made several references](https://thehill.com/blogs/in-the-know/5135981-kendrick-lamar-super-bowl-halftime-performance-serena-williams-drake-not-like-us/) to political issues, including having his dancers dressed in red, white and blue, posing in an American flag formation. That use of symbolism is what kept Nantamby from backing out of the Sudan-Palestine protest he planned.

“He had the people formulate the American flag; he had two big black flags with his record label,” Nantambu said. “And he talked about ‘the revolution being televised,’ and he talked about consciousness.”

The performance continued without a major disruption and the flag did not appear to be  broadcast live during the halftime show. No one reportedly in production knew that Nantambu planned to unfurl the flag.

He said he hopes his small act of protest is able to motivate others to speak out.

“Maybe we don’t have the military prowess to stop the war, but we can at least do what we can to help those who are afflicted by these different atrocities in these countries,” Nantambu said.

[thehill](https://thehill.com/blogs/blog-briefing-room/5137969-super-bowl-protester-palestine-protest/)
