---
title: "Trump signs off on new steel and aluminum tariffs"
date: "2025-02-11 07:06:04"
summary: "President Trump on Monday signed proclamations to bolster tariffs on all steel and aluminum imports into the United States and crack down on attempts by China and Russia to evade penalties. Trump in 2018 announced 25 percent tariffs on steel and 10 percent tariffs on aluminum imports. Monday’s action increases..."
categories:
  - "thehill"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "thehill"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

President Trump on Monday signed proclamations to bolster tariffs on all steel and aluminum imports into the United States and crack down on attempts by China and Russia to evade penalties.

Trump in 2018 [announced](https://www.cnn.com/2018/03/01/politics/steel-aluminum-trade-trump-chaos/index.html) 25 percent tariffs on steel and 10 percent tariffs on aluminum imports. Monday’s action increases the aluminum tariffs to 25 percent and includes provisions intended to “reinstate the full power” of the steel tariffs, White House officials said.

The proclamations include what White House officials called a “Melt and Pour” standard for steel in North American, and a “Smelt and Cast” standard for aluminum in North America, officials said. Those standards are intended to prevent countries like Russia and China from sending their steel to Mexico or Canada, have it relabeled and shipped off to the U.S. to avoid facing tariffs.

Trump has also directed to U.S. Customs and Border Patrol to “dramatically increase its oversight” to prevent tariff circumvention, White House officials said.

“President Trump is standing up for American steel and aluminum workers like no other leader has. Steel and aluminum tariffs 2.0 will put an end to foreign dumping, boost domestic production and secure our steel and aluminum industries as the backbone and pillar industries of America’s economic and national security,” Peter Navarro, a top White House adviser on trade, said in a statement.

Canada, Brazil, Mexico, South Korea and Germany are the top exporters of steel to the United States, while Canada, the United Arab Emirates, Russia and China are the main exporters of aluminium to the U.S.

The announcement comes as Trump has threatened to use tariffs liberally on imported goods, potentially sparking wide-reaching trade wars.

Trump initially announced a 25 percent tariff on imports from Canada and Mexico, but last week agreed to delay them after those two countries announced additional actions to secure their borders with the United States.

He also imposed a 10 percent tariff on all imports from China, prompting China to announce retaliatory tariffs targeting liquefied natural gas, coal, farm machinery and other products from the United States.

And Trump has teased that he will impose reciprocal tariffs on other nations to match any tariffs that are levied against U.S. exports.

The Biden administration [sought to target](https://thehill.com/business/4762780-biden-tariffs-mexico-china/) Chinese exports through steel and aluminum tariffs. The former administration last July announced tariffs on steel and aluminum imports from Mexico, which has become a conduit for many products of Chinese origin.

[thehill](https://thehill.com/homenews/administration/5137125-trump-steel-aluminum-tariffs/)
