---
title: "Former prosecutor: Decision to drop charges against Eric Adams ‘bizarre’"
date: "2025-02-11 22:21:16"
summary: "Former federal prosecutor Jeffrey Toobin questioned the Justice Department’s abrupt decision to drop charges against New York Mayor Eric Adams (D). “This is one of the most bizarre situations I have ever seen,” Toobin said during a Monday appearance on CNN’s “AC360.” Acting Deputy Attorney General Emil Bove sent a..."
categories:
  - "thehill"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "thehill"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Former federal prosecutor Jeffrey Toobin questioned the Justice Department’s abrupt decision to [drop charges](https://thehill.com/homenews/5137361-doj-charges-nyc-mayor-eric-adams/) against New York Mayor Eric Adams (D).

“This is one of the most bizarre situations I have ever seen,” Toobin said during a Monday appearance on CNN’s “AC360.”

Acting Deputy Attorney General Emil Bove sent [a memo](https://www.documentcloud.org/documents/25517976-doj-eric-adams-memo/) Monday to the U.S. Attorney in the Southern District of New York directing him to dismiss the pending charges against Adams.

“[Bove] makes complaints that [Adams] was politically targeted, which there is absolutely no evidence of,” Toobin told Anderson Cooper.

“And the Justice Department, now under the new Trump administration, dismisses the case against him, but says, well, we don’t know whether he’s guilty or not, but we want him to fight crime. I mean, this is what happens in authoritarian countries.”

Adams faces counts of conspiracy to commit wire fraud, wire fraud, solicitation of a contribution by a foreign national and bribery.

In the memo, Bove said the Justice Department reached this conclusion “without assessing the strength of the evidence or the legal theories on which the case is based.” Bove also ordered further investigative efforts suspended and Adams’s security clearances restored.

He added that, “the pending prosecution has unduly restricted Mayor Adams’ ability to devote full attention and resources to the illegal immigration and violent crime that escalated under the policies of the prior Administration.”

“The rule of law is not applied equally. It’s only applied to how the leader wants it applied,” he said describing an authoritarian regime.

“And Eric Adams has ingratiated himself with the Trump administration. And now he gets his case dismissed… And that’s not how the legal system is supposed to work.”

The New York mayor has vowed to “[work with](https://thehill.com/homenews/state-watch/5099476-adams-says-hes-here-to-work-with-trump/)” Trump and his new administration following a [meeting](https://thehill.com/homenews/administration/5090951-eric-adams-to-meet-with-trump-ahead-of-his-inauguration/) with the president prior to his inauguration.

[thehill](https://thehill.com/homenews/administration/5137895-jeffrey-toobin-eric-adams-case/)
