---
title: "Trump names Grenell as interim Kennedy Center executive director"
date: "2025-02-11 06:40:59"
summary: "President Trump on Monday named Richard Grenell, his envoy for special missions, the interim executive director of the Kennedy Center days after he named himself chair of a new board. “I am pleased to announce that Ric Grenell will serve as the Interim Executive Director of The Kennedy Center. Ric..."
categories:
  - "thehill"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "thehill"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

President Trump on Monday named Richard Grenell, his envoy for special missions, the interim executive director of the Kennedy Center days after [he named himself](https://thehill.com/blogs/in-the-know/5133803-trump-kennedy-center-board-chair-rubenstein/) chair of a new board.

“I am pleased to announce that Ric Grenell will serve as the Interim Executive Director of The Kennedy Center. Ric shares my Vision for a GOLDEN AGE of American Arts and Culture, and will be overseeing the daily operations of the Center. NO MORE DRAG SHOWS, OR OTHER ANTI-AMERICAN PROPAGANDA — ONLY THE BEST. RIC, WELCOME TO SHOW BUSINESS!” the president said [on Truth Social](https://truthsocial.com/@realDonaldTrump/113981872435350592) on Monday.

Grenell, who served as Trump’s acting director of national intelligence and ambassador to Germany in his first term, recently traveled to Venezuela and was largely credited with helping free six Americans detained in the country.

Trump on Friday said that he would end the terms of multiple members of the Kennedy Center board and announce a new board, led by him.

In response to the president’s Friday night post, the Kennedy Center highlighted its historically “collaborative relationship with every presidential administration,” noting it had not received any information from the Trump administration about his move.

The current chair of the Kennedy Center board of trustees is billionaire philanthropist [David Rubenstein,](https://thehill.com/people/david-rubenstein/) who was co-founder of the private equity firm the Carlyle Group and had served as a policy adviser to former President Carter.

Other members of the board include businessman Anthony Welters, who serves as vice chair, and Deborah Rutter, who serves as president, though last month she [announced plans to step down](https://thehill.com/blogs/in-the-know/5109026-deborah-rutter-kennedy-center-trump/) later this year.

[thehill](https://thehill.com/homenews/administration/5137022-trump-names-grenell-kennedy-center/)
