---
title: "Jon Stewart on Trump straw order: ‘OK, he’s right on this one’"
date: "2025-02-11 22:46:12"
summary: "Jon Stewart is offering his seemingly reluctant support for President Trump’s push for plastic straws, saying the paper versions are “objectively terrible.” The president signed an executive order on Monday that directed the federal government to return to using plastic straws. Paper straws, Trump said, “don’t work.” Stewart, a frequent..."
categories:
  - "thehill"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "thehill"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Jon Stewart is offering his seemingly reluctant support for President Trump’s push for plastic straws, saying the paper versions are “objectively terrible.”

The [president signed](https://thehill.com/policy/energy-environment/5137241-trump-signs-executive-order-restoring-plastic-straw-use-in-government/) an executive order on Monday that directed the federal government to return to using plastic straws. Paper straws, Trump said, “don’t work.”

Stewart, a frequent Trump critic, appeared to begrudgingly agree with the move while hosting Monday’s “The Daily Show” on Comedy Central.

While winding up with what appeared to be a rebuke of Trump’s executive order, Stewart instead exclaimed, “OK, he’s right on this one.”

“Those straws are f—ing terrible,” the 62-year-old comedian said of paper straws.

“I’m supposed to have some weird tissue paper dissolve in my mouth just because turtles can’t figure out straws aren’t food?” Stewart told the audience.

“Don’t eat the tubes, you stupid turtles!” he said.

“Everything Trump does is part of ‘Making America Great Again.’ Order one, roll back everything from the previous, not-great administration: Regulations on the environment, regulations on the Second Amendment, the Title IX guidance, and not just the big s—. You want to ‘Make America Great Again,’ you can’t skimp on the details,” Stewart said of Trump’s straw-focused executive order.

Trump’s propping up of plastic straws came after former President Biden [set a goal](https://thehill.com/policy/energy-environment/4782828-white-house-end-government-purchase-single-use-plastic-2035/) last year aimed at ending the federal government’s purchasing of single-use plastics by 2035.

“Plastic production and waste have doubled over the past two decades, littering our ocean, poisoning the air of communities near production facilities, and threatening public health,” the White House said in a fact sheet released at the time.

[thehill](https://thehill.com/blogs/in-the-know/5138001-jon-stewart-trump-plastic-straws-daily-show/)
