---
title: "Biden viewed least favorably among living presidents: Gallup"
date: "2025-02-11 23:55:59"
summary: "Former President Biden is viewed the least favorably among all living presidents, following a trend for presidents who just left office, a new survey found. According to a survey released by Gallup, of the five living men who have served as U.S. president, Biden ranks the lowest among the American..."
categories:
  - "thehill"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "thehill"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Former President Biden is viewed the least favorably among all living presidents, following a trend for presidents who just left office, a new survey found.

According to [a survey released by Gallup,](https://news.gallup.com/poll/656330/obama-best-liked-among-living-presidents-biden-least.aspx) of the five living men who have served as U.S. president, Biden ranks the lowest among the American people.

Biden scored just a 39 percent favorability rating and a 57 percent unfavorable rating. Four percent of respondants said they have no opinion.

President Trump and former President Clinton were close in second place, but still with a sizable margin to Biden. Both had a 48 percent favorable rating, with Trump at 50 percent unfavorable and Clinton at 51 percent unfavorable.

Former President Bush ranks slightly higher, with 52 percent of respondents saying they have a favorable view of the Republicans and 34 percent holding an unfavorable view. Fourteen percent say they have no opinion on Bush’s time in office.

Former President Obama receives the best rating. He earned a 59 percent favorability rating from respondents and a 36 percent unfavorability rating. Just 4 percent say they have no opinion on his presidency.

The poll was conducted just after former President Carter died. All five remaining living presidents [attended his funeral](https://thehill.com/homenews/administration/5075006-trump-attends-carter-funeral/) in Washington, held just before Trump was sworn in for the second time.

Gallup noted that Trump and Biden’s ratings are nearly unchanged from after the 2024 presidential election and Trump’s first few days in office didn’t impact his score much.

All five presidents were viewed more favorably by voters from their respective parties. Bush, however, was less divided by party, while Trump was most divided between party affiliation.

“Presidential image trends tend to follow a similar pattern – general positive ratings around the time of their inauguration, subdued ratings while in office, usually poor ratings when their presidency ends, and improved favorability after having been out of office for some time,” Gallup said.

It noted that Obama’s likeability has been an exception, as he remained favored by the American people near the end of his second term.

[thehill](https://thehill.com/blogs/blog-briefing-room/5138111-biden-favorability-lowest-presidents/)
