---
title: "GOP senator: ‘We have to’ follow court decisions"
date: "2025-02-12 01:35:57"
summary: "Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) said “we have to” follow court decisions in the Trump administration’s various legal battles, even as top officials challenge the judicial actions. On Tuesday, Rounds was asked by MSNBC about the judges who are pushing back on President Trump’s executive orders. “I think it’s a very,..."
categories:
  - "thehill"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "thehill"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) said “we have to” follow court decisions in the Trump administration’s various legal battles, even as top officials challenge the judicial actions.

On Tuesday, Rounds was asked by MSNBC about the judges who are pushing back on President Trump’s executive orders.

“I think it’s a very, very clear line between the powers that are there, that are appropriate. This president is saying, ‘I believe I have the authority,’” Rounds said. “You find out in a court of law and if they are appropriate, you move forward with them.”

He then was asked if lawmakers will have to follow whatever the court’s decision ultimately is.

“We have to,” Rounds replied. “We will follow the decisions of the court and I don’t think there’s been anybody saying no.”

Dozens of lawsuits have been filed challenging the Trump administration’s actions on issues including immigration, gender and LGBTQ issues and federal employee protections.

Federal judges [have halted several](https://thehill.com/homenews/administration/5137035-trump-musk-vance-attack-courts-judges/) of the president’s sweeping executive orders that aim to reshape the U.S. government. Their rulings have blocked the plans from going forward, at least temporarily.

Vice President JD Vance [challenged the judges](https://thehill.com/regulation/court-battles/5135004-jd-vance-courts-trump-orders/), arguing they are going too far and the rulings are illegal.

“Judges aren’t allowed to control the executive’s legitimate power,” Vance said.

Department of Government Efficiency (DOGE) leader Elon Musk [also pushed back](https://thehill.com/homenews/administration/5135757-elon-musk-attacks-judges/) on the judges, arguing “it’s time” that Congress impeach them.

While the suits originated in Democratic areas, they may find their way to the conservative Supreme Court as the Trump administration fights the legal challenges to its actions.

It remains unclear whether the cases will reach the high court, and what implications they may have in pitting the executive branch against the judicial branch.

[thehill](https://thehill.com/regulation/court-battles/5138387-mike-rounds-trump-administration-court-rulings/)
