---
title: "30 House Democrats call on Senate to reject Patel FBI nomination"
date: "2025-02-12 02:11:06"
summary: "A coalition of 30 House Democrats are asking Republicans and Democrats on the Senate Judiciary Committee to oppose Kash Patel’s nomination to lead the FBI. The letter comes just days before the panel is set to advance Patel’s nomination out of committee. “The nomination of Mr. Patel, an individual with..."
categories:
  - "thehill"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "thehill"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

A coalition of 30 House Democrats are asking Republicans and Democrats on the Senate Judiciary Committee to oppose Kash Patel’s nomination to lead the FBI.

The letter comes just days before the panel is set to advance Patel’s nomination out of committee.

“The nomination of Mr. Patel, an individual with almost no law enforcement experience and a history of politically charged and inflammatory statements is clearly a break from tradition and one that deserves extensive scrutiny as a result,” wrote Rep. Glenn Ivey (D-Md.), who spearheaded the letter.

“He has published a list of political opponents in his book and has promised to shut down the FBI headquarters on his first day in office. The FBI Director is not a position for an erratic political actor focused on retribution.”

While Democrats have been staunch in their opposition to Patel, Republicans have been enthusiastic in their support for him.

The House Democrats pointed to “demonstrated inconsistencies” in Patel’s testimony to the panel, including one in which the nominee [misrepresented his role](https://thehill.com/policy/national-security/5116845-kash-patel-democrats-controversial-statements/) in promoting a song recorded by a group of jailed Jan. 6 defendants.

He also said he had no insight into potential firings at the FBI, comments made the day before a [purge of FBI officials](https://thehill.com/homenews/administration/5124328-trump-administration-purge-fbi/).

Senate Judiciary Democrats are now questioning whether Patel may have perjured himself when asked about those firings.

Ranking member Dick Durbin (D-Ill.) on Tuesday asked the Justice Department’s inspector general [to investigate Patel’s role](https://thehill.com/homenews/senate/5138452-durbin-kash-patel-fbi/), saying he had received a whistleblower complaint indicating Patel was involved in the firings despite statements otherwise.

In addition to the firing of top leadership at the bureau and at field offices, the Justice Department has also asked for a detailed breakdown of all agents who worked on the Jan. 6 investigations involving the 1,500 charged in connection with storming the Capitol.

Ivey and the others likewise relayed a fear that Patel would be fixated on retaliation at the bureau.

“We are concerned that Mr. Patel will carry out the President’s retaliatory efforts rather than focus on the FBI’s mission to keep the American people safe from threats at home and abroad,” the House Democrats wrote.

“The United States faces national security challenges, including foreign influence, cybersecurity, and terrorism that the next FBI Director will need to tackle. Neglecting these actual threats to settle scores does not serve the needs of the American people.”

[thehill](https://thehill.com/homenews/house/5138594-democrats-oppose-patel-fbi-nomination/)
