---
title: "DOGE caucus Democrat: ‘Elon’s been doing it all himself’"
date: "2025-02-12 01:21:09"
summary: "Rep. Jared Moskowitz (D-Fla.), a member of the Department of Government Efficiency (DOGE) caucus in the House, said members of Congress have so far been excluded from discussions about ways to eliminate waste and fraud in the federal government. In an interview with CNN’s Pamela Brown, Moskowitz said the efforts..."
categories:
  - "thehill"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "thehill"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Rep. Jared Moskowitz (D-Fla.), a member of the Department of Government Efficiency (DOGE) caucus in the House, said members of Congress have so far been excluded from discussions about ways to eliminate waste and fraud in the federal government.

In an interview with CNN’s Pamela Brown, Moskowitz said the efforts have been carried out entirely under the purview of tech billionaire Elon Musk and his DOGE commission. Republicans formed committees in the House and Senate to coordinate with Musk’s cost-cutting commission.

“I joined that [the DOGE caucus] because we were told that this is where the discussion is going to happen,” Moskowitz told Brown. “That being said, there’s been no discussion. Elon’s been doing it all himself.”

“We’ve had meetings. It’s been bipartisan. We’ve had good discussions, but it doesn’t seem like the caucus is included on what DOGE is finding,” he added. “We were told Elon is going to audit it and make recommendations to Congress.”

Moskowitz said he does not believe anyone in Congress has been getting additional information about steps Musk is taking to cut spending from various government agencies. He said that’s particularly problematic because Congress is constitutionally responsible for overseeing federal spending.

“It doesn’t appear to be any communication between what Elon is doing and the caucus, it seems that Congress is behind and being left out, considering this is our function,” Moskowitz said.

“What they’re doing is they’re cutting and stopping, which is things that the executive branch can’t do. That’s for Congress to do.”

Moskowitz called on Musk to bring his recommendations to Congress and urged Speaker Mike Johnson (R-La.) to bring any proposed changes to the House floor for a vote.

“We don’t know that everything they’re finding is true or not true, but, you know, at the moment, we can only take them at their word,” Moskowitz said.

“But why don’t they just present it to Congress? Why don’t you be transparent, bring all of those things to Congress and let Congress decide on an up-or-down vote?”

[thehill](https://thehill.com/homenews/house/5138390-elon-musk-excludes-congress-doge/)
