---
title: "Democrats unveil legislation in bid to halt USAID elimination"
date: "2025-02-12 03:50:57"
summary: "A group of House Democrats have introduced legislation in a bid to stop the Trump administration from dismantling the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID). The bill, led by Rep. Sara Jacobs (D-Calif.), was introduced Tuesday and is called the Protect U.S. National Security Act. It aims to prove that..."
categories:
  - "thehill"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "thehill"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

A group of House Democrats have introduced legislation in a bid to stop the Trump administration from dismantling the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID).

The bill, led by Rep. Sara Jacobs (D-Calif.), was [introduced Tuesday](https://sarajacobs.house.gov/imo/media/doc/protect_usnationalsecurityact.pdf) and is called the Protect U.S. National Security Act. It aims to prove that USAID reform should abide by laws and “not harm American soft power” as the newly created Department of Government Efficiency (DOGE) looks to cut federal spending at various agencies and departments.

“Over the past 10 days, Elon Musk and DOGE have shut down USAID’s website, closed its headquarters, placed thousands of staffers on leave, and issued a stop work order on most foreign assistance – including life-saving humanitarian assistance,” Jacobs said in [a release.](https://sarajacobs.house.gov/news/press-releases/rep-sara-jacobs-introduces-legislation-to-protect-usaid)

The future of USAID remains unclear after a federal judge [temporarily paused](https://thehill.com/regulation/court-battles/5133740-trump-administration-temporarily-pauses-usaid-cuts/) the Trump administration’s plan to put thousands of its employees on leave. A preliminary injunction hearing has been scheduled for Wednesday.

Jacobs, as the ranking member on the House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee that oversees USAID, introduced the bill with 15 other Democrats.

The legislation, first reported by [Reuters](https://www.reuters.com/world/us/democratic-lawmakers-introduce-bill-aimed-halting-elimination-usaid-2025-02-11/), looks to ban the Trump administration from using U.S. funds to pay the salaries of employees cutting USAID, including those employed by DOGE.

It likely faces an uphill battle in the GOP-led House and Senate, but Democrats warn of the seriousness of the recent actions from President Trump and Elon Musk. In the Senate, Democrats caution that they have the power to withhold funding from the government ahead of the March 14 deadline.

Jacobs highlighted her career working to reform and support USAID, noting that if the U.S. eliminates the international aid agency, it will be “a death sentence for millions of people.”

“Not to mention, Elon Musk’s elimination of USAID is completely illegal,” she said. “That’s why I’m proud to introduce legislation to prohibit the use of any funds to eliminate USAID.”

[thehill](https://thehill.com/homenews/house/5138918-democrats-usaid-doge-bill/)
