---
title: "Democrats press FAA over plans for DOGE to ‘plug in’"
date: "2025-02-12 09:41:16"
summary: "A group of Democrats on Monday pressed the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) over plans for tech billionaire Elon Musk’s Department of Government Efficiency (DOGE) to “plug in.” In a letter, the Democrats noted recent posts on the social platform X from Musk and Transportation Secretary Sean Duffy about DOGE involvement..."
categories:
  - "thehill"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "thehill"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

A group of Democrats on Monday pressed the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) over plans for tech billionaire Elon Musk’s Department of Government Efficiency (DOGE) to “plug in.”

In [a letter](https://www.kaine.senate.gov/imo/media/doc/va_md_dc_delegation_rocheleau_dca_incident_letter_doge.pdf), the Democrats [noted recent posts](https://thehill.com/policy/technology/5129134-el-musk-urges-quick-safety-upgrades-faa/) on the social platform X from Musk and Transportation Secretary Sean Duffy about DOGE involvement with aviation.

“Big News – Talked to the DOGE team. They are going to plug in to help upgrade our aviation system,” said Duffy [on X last week](https://x.com/SecDuffy/status/1887209012867047525).

The Democrats said they “are extremely concerned that an ad hoc team of individuals lacking any expertise, exposure, certifications, or knowledge of aviation operations being invited, or inserting themselves, to make ‘rapid’ changes to our nation’s air traffic systems.”

“This is the wrong course of action to take,” they added.

The group of Democratic lawmakers who signed the letter featured Sens. Mark Warner (Va.), Tim Kaine (Va.), Angela Alsobrooks (Md.) and Chris Van Hollen (Md.), as well as Reps. Don Beyer (Va.), Gerry Connolly (Va.), Jamie Raskin (Md.) Suhas Subramanyam (Va.) and Del. Eleanor Holmes Norton (D.C.). All lawmakers are from states bordering Washington, D.C., or the nation’s capital.

The Washington region also recently experienced a deadly plane crash between an Army Black Hawk helicopter and an American Airlines near Reagan Washington National Airport that raised questions about aviation safety. The lawmakers referenced the crash in their letter and said that “it is crucial that we thoroughly review and scrutinize the protocols that govern flight operations near the airspace over National Airport.”

Monday’s letter also featured questions, including those about the “engagement” FAA has “had with DOGE at this time” and the “engagement” that “has been discussed or is planned for the future.”

The Hill has reached out to the White House, the Department of Transportation and the FAA for comment.

[thehill](https://thehill.com/policy/transportation/5139794-democrats-faa-doge/)
