---
title: "Democrats call on Trump to retract tariffs on Canada, Mexico before they are implemented"
date: "2025-02-12 04:41:07"
summary: "A group of Democrats have called on President Trump to retract tariffs on Canada and Mexico before they are implemented. “As Members of the House Ways and Means Committee, we urge you to retract your order for across-the-board tariffs on imports from Canada and Mexico before they go into effect,”..."
categories:
  - "thehill"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "thehill"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

A group of Democrats have called on President Trump to retract tariffs on Canada and Mexico before they are implemented.

“As Members of the House Ways and Means Committee, we urge you to retract your order for across-the-board tariffs on imports from Canada and Mexico before they go into effect,” [the group of Democrats said in a letter last week](https://panetta.house.gov/sites/evo-subsites/panetta.house.gov/files/evo-media-document/Quill%20-%20Letter%20%23L22674%20-%20Letter%20on%20Canada%20and%20Mexico%20Tariffs%20-%20Version%20%231%20-%2002-10-2025%20%40%2011-25%20AM.pdf).

“Your use of tariffs as a bargaining chip to settle non-trade issues is counterproductive to the goal of revitalizing manufacturing and bringing back American jobs,” the group added. “The wellbeing of American workers, families, and businesses should never be gambled for the sake of scoring political points.”

Among those who signed the letter included Reps. Jimmy Panetta (D-Calif.), Rep. Linda Sánchez (D-Calif.) Suzan DelBene (D-Wash.), Judy Chu (D-Calif.), Lloyd Doggett (D-Texas), Jimmy Gomez (D-Calif.), Brendan Boyle (D-Pa.), Don Beyer (D-Va.), Mike Thompson (D-Calif.), Dwight Evans (D-Pa.), Brad Schneider (D-Ill.), Terri Sewell (D-Ala.), Steven Horsford (D-Nev.), John Larson (D-Conn.), Danny K. Davis (D-Ill.), Tom Suozzi (D-N.Y.), Gwen Moore (D-Wis.) Richard Neal (D-Mass.) and Del. Stacey Plaskett (D-Virgin Islands).

Earlier this month, Trump [signed orders imposing](https://thehill.com/business/5122629-stock-market-trump-tariffs-canada-mexico-china/) 25 percent tariffs on Canadian and Mexican products. Within [the next few days](https://thehill.com/homenews/administration/5124026-trump-trudeau-canada-tariff-delay/), Trump came to [agreements with](https://thehill.com/homenews/administration/5122864-trump-mexico-delay-tariffs/) Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau and Mexican President Claudia Sheinbaum to delay tariffs for at least a month.

“Make no mistake — across the board tariffs against Canada and Mexico will raise costs for American families on everything from groceries to household staples,” the Democrats said in their letter.

“These tariffs will also threaten the stability of critical American industries and jobs – from factory workers, farmers, and small businesses – that rely on interconnected supply chains with Canada and Mexico,” they added.

The Hill has reached out to the White House for comment.

[thehill](https://thehill.com/homenews/house/5139006-democrats-call-on-trump-to-retract-tariffs-on-canada-mexico-before-they-are-implemented/)
