---
title: "Trudeau calls out ‘unjustified’ Trump tariffs on steel, aluminum"
date: "2025-02-12 05:51:00"
summary: "Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau called President Trump’s tariffs on steel and aluminum imports “entirely unjustified” and said the country would respond “if it comes to that.” “Tariffs on Canadian steel and aluminum would be entirely unjustified,” Trudeau said in remarks to reporters on Tuesday. “We are US’s closest ally...."
categories:
  - "thehill"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "thehill"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau called President Trump’s tariffs on steel and aluminum imports “entirely unjustified” and said the country would respond “if it comes to that.”

“Tariffs on Canadian steel and aluminum would be entirely unjustified,” Trudeau [said](https://apnews.com/video/trudeau-says-canada-will-stand-up-strongly-and-firmly-against-us-tariffs-on-steel-and-aluminum-2910840e32eb4da0ad44c39669e7494e) in remarks to reporters on Tuesday.

“We are US’s closest ally. Our economies are integrated. Canadian steel and aluminum is used in a number of key American industries, whether it’s defense, ship building, manufacturing, energy, automotive,” he continued. “Together, we make North America more competitive.”

Trudeau argued the tariffs would hurt Americans, as well as Canadians.

“We will be working with the American administration over the coming weeks to highlight the negative impacts on Americans and Canadians of these unacceptable tariffs,” Trudeau said.

“But we’ll also be working with our international partners and friends, and if it comes to that, our response, of course, will be firm and clear,” he added.

Trump on Monday [signed proclamations](https://thehill.com/homenews/administration/5137125-trump-steel-aluminum-tariffs/) to bolster tariffs on all steel and aluminum imports into the United States. In 2018, Trump [announced](https://www.cnn.com/2018/03/01/politics/steel-aluminum-trade-trump-chaos/index.html) 25 percent tariffs on steel and 10 percent tariffs on aluminum imports. Monday’s action increases the aluminum tariffs to 25 percent and includes provisions intended to “reinstate the full power” of the steel tariffs, White House officials said.

Canada is among the top exporters of steel and aluminum. Trump initially announced a 25 percent tariff on imports from Canada and Mexico, but last week agreed to delay them after those two countries announced additional actions to secure their borders with the United States.

Trudeau said on Tuesday that Canada will stand up for its workers.

“We will stand up for Canadian workers, we will stand up for Canadian industries, and more Canadians will stand up for each other,” Trudeau said. “We should be doing more together, not fighting with each other.”

“But, Canadians will stand up strongly and firmly, if we need to,” he added.

[thehill](https://thehill.com/policy/international/5139294-canada-trudeau-trump-tariffs/)
