---
title: "Kansas governor vetoes ban on gender-affirming care for minors"
date: "2025-02-12 08:25:59"
summary: "Kansas’s Democratic Gov. Laura Kelly vetoed a proposal to ban gender-affirming care for transgender youth for the third consecutive year, setting up another battle with the state’s Republican-dominated Legislature that has previously failed to overrule her on the issue. Kansas’s Senate Bill 63 would broadly prevent health care professionals from..."
categories:
  - "thehill"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "thehill"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Kansas’s Democratic Gov. Laura Kelly vetoed a proposal to ban gender-affirming care for transgender youth for the third consecutive year, setting up another battle with the state’s Republican-dominated Legislature that has previously failed to overrule her on the issue.

Kansas’s Senate Bill 63 would broadly prevent health care professionals from providing gender-affirming medical care, including puberty blockers, hormone therapy and surgery, to minors diagnosed with gender dysphoria — the severe psychological distress that stems from a mismatch between a person’s gender identity and sex at birth.

The “Help Not Harm Act” measure would also slash state support for transition-related care and put doctors who continue providing it in jeopardy of losing their medical licenses.

“It is disappointing that the Legislature continues to push for government interference in Kansans’ private medical decisions instead of focusing on issues that improve all Kansans’ lives,” Kelly said Tuesday [in a statement](https://www.governor.ks.gov/Home/Components/News/News/551/56).

“Infringing on parental rights is not appropriate, nor is it a Kansas value. As I’ve said before, it is not the job of politicians to stand between a parent and a child who needs medical care of any kind,” she said. “This legislation will also drive families, businesses, and health care workers out of our state, stifling our economy and exacerbating our workforce shortage issue.”

“Right now, the Legislature should be focused on ways to help Kansans cope with rising prices,” Kelly added. “That is the most important issue for Kansans. That is where my focus is.”

The bill easily cleared the state Senate late last month in a vote 32-8, with one Democrat joining all Republicans in voting to pass the measure. The House vote was 85-35, one vote shy of the two-thirds majority needed for an override, though seven lawmakers — four Republicans and three Democrats — were absent.

While Kansas Republicans have argued that such a law is needed to protect children and teens from making medical decisions that they may later regret, Democrats have called the bill “extreme” and warned it goes far beyond regulating health care.

“This bill inserts politicians into highly personal, private health care situations, and that is against the values of Kansans,” Sen. Cindy Holscher (D) said in January.

Major medical organizations say gender-affirming health care is medically necessary and can be lifesaving for both transgender adults and minors, though not every trans person opts to medically transition or has access to care.

Nearly half the nation since 2021 has adopted laws to ban gender-affirming care for transgender young people and, in some cases, adults. Last month, President Trump [signed an executive order](https://thehill.com/homenews/lgbtq/5112282-trump-issues-executive-order-to-ban-gender-affirming-care-for-minors/) meant to end federal support for transgender health care.

Kansas Republicans have said the Legislature is prepared to override Kelly’s veto.

“House Republicans stand ready to override this reckless and senseless veto,” said state House Speaker Dan Hawkins (R) [in a statement](https://x.com/DanHawkinsKS/status/1889445446818369848?ref_src=twsrc%5Egoogle%7Ctwcamp%5Eserp%7Ctwgr%5Etweet) Tuesday evening.

Kansas Senate President Ty Masterson (R) [said the state’s upper chamber](https://x.com/sentymasterson/status/1889453021647552586) “will swiftly override her veto before the ink from her pen is dry.”

[thehill](https://thehill.com/policy/healthcare/5139742-kansas-governor-vetoes-ban-gender-affirming-care-minors/)
