---
title: "Texas GOP lawmakers introduce bills to display Ten Commandments, read Bible in schools"
date: "2025-02-12 04:55:54"
summary: "Republicans in the Texas Senate introduced a bill that would require the Ten Commandments to be displayed in public schools and have time set aside in the day for students to read the Bible. The bill, introduced by state Sen. Phil King (R), would be similar to a bill that..."
categories:
  - "thehill"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "thehill"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Republicans in the Texas Senate introduced a bill that would require the Ten Commandments to be displayed in public schools and have time set aside in the day for students to read the Bible.

The bill, [introduced](https://capitol.texas.gov/tlodocs/89R/billtext/pdf/SB00010I.pdf#navpanes=0) by state Sen. Phil King (R), would be similar to a bill that passed in Louisiana last year.

After [Louisiana required](https://thehill.com/homenews/education/4730255-louisiana-require-ten-commandments-classrooms/) all public schools and colleges display the Ten Commandments in every classroom, Texas Lt. Gov. Dan Patrick (R) [promised](https://thehill.com/homenews/state-watch/4733538-texas-lt-gov-dan-patrick-ten-commandments/) a similar bill would pass through the state Senate in the following legislative session.

The Texas Senate previously passed S.B. 1515, which would have required the Ten Commandments to be hung in classrooms. It passed along partisan lines, with Democrats arguing it would be insulting to non-Christians. It didn’t come to the floor of the House in 2023 as they ran out of time in the legislative session.

After the success in Louisiana, Texas lawmakers vowed to try and pass the measure again.

“The Ten Commandments are part of our Texas and American story,” [King said in a statement he reposted on X.](https://x.com/bradj_TX/status/1888992935552675859) “They are ingrained into who we are as a people and as a nation. Today, our students cry out for moral clarity, for the statement of right and wrong that they represent. If our students don’t know the Ten Commandments, they will never understand the foundation for much of American history and law.”

While the Louisiana law was set to go into place Jan. 1, it’s been stalled in the courts and could make its way to the Supreme Court, which previously examined having the Ten Commandments in schools in 1980, NBC News noted in its reporting.

After the state’s GOP governor signed the bill into law, it [kickstarted](https://thehill.com/homenews/education/4733678-louisiana-law-ten-commandments-fight/) a series of other conservative states looking to piggyback off the idea. Critics of the idea say there is becoming a concerning trend of mixing religion with taxpayer-funded public schools in red states.

The measure in Texas might stand a better chance this year, as it was introduced much earlier in the legislative session than in 2023 and follows up on Louisiana’s bill.

President Trump [celebrated](https://thehill.com/homenews/4732912-trump-backs-louisiana-ten-commandments/) the Louisiana law, saying online he loves the Ten Commandments in public and private schools and “OTHER PLACES, FOR THAT MATTER.”

[thehill](https://thehill.com/homenews/state-watch/5139035-texas-bills-ten-commandments-bible-schools/)
