---
title: "Former Secret Service leader Ronald Rowe is retiring"
date: "2025-02-12 11:46:04"
summary: "Former Acting Secret Service Director Ronald Rowe is retiring, according to the Secret Service. “Deputy Director Ronald Rowe, a valued executive and leader of the United States Secret Service, has announced his decision to retire after 26 years of dedicated service. He is currently enjoying a well-deserved break before his..."
categories:
  - "thehill"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "thehill"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Former Acting Secret Service Director Ronald Rowe is retiring, according to the Secret Service.

“Deputy Director Ronald Rowe, a valued executive and leader of the United States Secret Service, has announced his decision to retire after 26 years of dedicated service. He is currently enjoying a well-deserved break before his retirement,” Anthony Guglielmi, the Secret Service’s communications chief, said in a statement emailed to The Hill on Tuesday.

Rowe’s [predecessor as the head](https://thehill.com/policy/national-security/5024290-secret-service-leader-erupts-at-gop-rep-over-9-11-questioning/) of the Secret Service, Kimberly Cheatle resigned quickly following a July attempted assassination against President Trump in Pennsylvania. While Secret Service acting director, Rowe said he was “ashamed” of the assassination attempt [only a few weeks after it occurred](https://thehill.com/homenews/4799970-secret-service-director-trump-shooting/).

In December, Rowe [notably got into](https://thehill.com/policy/national-security/5024290-secret-service-leader-erupts-at-gop-rep-over-9-11-questioning/) a shouting match with Rep. Pat Fallon (R-Texas) [during a meeting of the House task force](https://thehill.com/policy/national-security/5025213-house-task-force-review-secret-service/) assembled to review assassination attempts against Trump.

Trump [tapped now-Secret Service Director](https://thehill.com/homenews/administration/5101878-trump-secret-service-director/) Sean Curran to lead the agency in late January. Curran protected Trump during the July assassination attempt.

“Sean is a Great Patriot, who has protected my family over the past few years, and that is why I trust him to lead the Brave Men and Women of the United States Secret Service,” Trump previously said on Truth Social.

The president said at the time that Curran had “distinguished himself as a brilliant leader, who is capable of directing and leading operational security plans for some of the most complex Special Security Events in the History of our Country, and the World.”

*Filip Timotija contributed reporting*

[thehill](https://thehill.com/policy/national-security/5139906-secret-service-ronald-rowe-retirement/)
