---
title: "FBI finds thousands of documents related to JFK assassination"
date: "2025-02-13 00:21:13"
summary: "The FBI has discovered 2,400 new records related to former President Kennedy’s 1963 assassination, the agency said Tuesday. The effort follows President Trump’s executive order declaring documents related to Kennedy’s death be declassified. The FBI did not detail the contents of the files. The National Archives maintains over 5 million..."
categories:
  - "thehill"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "thehill"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The FBI has discovered 2,400 new records related to former President Kennedy’s 1963 assassination, the agency said Tuesday.

The effort follows President Trump’s [executive order](https://thehill.com/homenews/administration/5103512-trump-executive-order-jfk-assassination-documents/) declaring documents related to Kennedy’s death be declassified.

The FBI did not detail the contents of the files. The National Archives [maintains](https://www.archives.gov/research/jfk) over 5 million pages of records on the assassination, much of it public.

When declassification efforts started, a better index of available records aided the discovery, according to the Associated Press. In 2020, the agency opened a Central Records Complex to stockpile, ship and inventory the information electronically compiled by field offices across the country.

Lee Harvey Oswald was determined to be the lone actor in the Dallas shooting that claimed Kennedy’s life, but conspiracy theories have swirled since the shooting. Oswald, who was 24 at the time, was said to have visited the Soviet and Cuban embassies during a trip to Mexico City a week prior to the assassination, according to the [Associated Press](https://apnews.com/article/jfk-fbi-trump-newly-discovered-files-0bd8ad5569f5fa3ed92b8ee9b795c9e7).

The CIA cited no foreign involvement in the crime that ravaged the nation. But some have questioned the transparency of the intelligence agency’s investigation.

“I think it’s beyond a reasonable doubt at this point.”

RFK Jr. said his uncle was targeted due to his refusal to commit U.S. forces to Vietnam.

“When my uncle was president, he was surrounded by a military-industrial complex and intelligence apparatus that was constantly trying to get him to go to war in Laos, Vietnam, etc.,” Kennedy told Catsimatidis.

He has [lauded](https://thehill.com/homenews/administration/5104616-robert-f-kennedy-jr-supports-trump-executive-order-jfk/) President Trump for his decision to declassify government files on the assassination.

“I think it’s a great move because they need to have more transparency in our government and he’s keeping his promise to have the government tell the truth to the American people about everything,” Kennedy, President Trump’s nominee for secretary of Health and Human Services, told reporters in late January.

[thehill](https://thehill.com/homenews/administration/5140507-fbi-records-kennedy-assassination/)
