---
title: "Former postal service employee sentenced in $24M stolen checks scheme"
date: "2025-02-13 00:51:53"
summary: "The former U.S. Postal Service employee who was charged in a $24 million stolen check scheme were sentenced last week to 60 months in prison. According to a release from the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Western District of North Carolina, Nakedra Shannon, 30, was sentenced Thursday to about 5..."
categories:
  - "thehill"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "thehill"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The former U.S. Postal Service employee who was charged in a $24 million [stolen check scheme](https://thehill.com/blogs/blog-briefing-room/4316994-u-s-postal-worker-24-million-check-scheme/) were sentenced last week to 60 months in prison.

According to [a release](https://www.justice.gov/usao-wdnc/pr/us-postal-employee-and-co-conspirator-receive-prison-time-stolen-check-scheme) from the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Western District of North Carolina, Nakedra Shannon, 30, was sentenced Thursday to about 5 years in prison and two years of supervised release for the scheme.

Shannon, along with co-conspirators Donnel Gardner and Desiray Carter, [stole incoming and outgoing checks](https://thehill.com/homenews/5066246-postal-workers-stealing-mail-inspector-general-report/) from the mail. They then sold those to other individuals using a Telegram channel.

Carter would run the Telegram channel named OG Glass House while Gardner would send the checks. Then, the money would be split, with half going to Carter and the other half split between Shannon and Gardner, the Department of Justice previously revealed.

Carter was sentenced to 54 months in prison and two years of supervised release on Thursday. Donnell was sentenced last year to 54 months in prison and three years of supervised release. Each of the three defendants also had to pay $113,333.87 in restitution.

Shannon was employed by the U.S. Postal Service from March 2021 to July 2023 in Charlotte, N.C. She admitted in court to conspiring with the others to steal checks and sell them off.

“The co-conspirators stole checks totaling more than $24 million, which includes over $12 million in stolen checks that were posted for sale on the Telegram channel OG Glass House, and more than $8 million in stolen U.S. Treasury checks,” the release said.

They made “hundreds of thousands” of the scheme, according to prosecutors.

U.S. Attorney Dena King thanked various federal agencies and the Charlotte area police for their work investigating the case.

[thehill](https://thehill.com/regulation/court-battles/5140632-former-usps-employee-sentenced-24m-stolen-checks-case/)
