---
title: "Scarborough: Musk speaking to reporters in Oval Office ‘extraordinarily important’"
date: "2025-02-12 23:46:01"
summary: "MSNBC host Joe Scarborough offered rare praise of Elon Musk for facing reporters inside the Oval Office on Tuesday as his Department of Government Efficiency (DOGE) works to trim the size and spending of the federal government. “In theory, this would be wonderful. Whether you’re talking about the Pentagon, whether..."
categories:
  - "thehill"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "thehill"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

MSNBC host Joe Scarborough offered rare praise of Elon Musk for facing reporters inside the Oval Office on Tuesday as his Department of Government Efficiency (DOGE) works to trim the size and spending of the federal government.

> “In theory, this would be wonderful. Whether you’re talking about the Pentagon, whether you’re talking about the VA, whether you’re talking about social security, anybody that has tried to deal with the IRS and how antiquated, and I may say, too, for Republicans, understaffed,” Scarborough said of Musk’s “government efficiency” efforts.
> 
> But, he added, “They’re not going to tackle the $36 trillion debt by doing all the things they want to do and cutting some employees here and there. So, yeah, this is … I think, a concept that many Americans would support. A lot of independents would support. The question, though, is: Is it being done legally? Is it being done constitutionally? And is it being done transparently?”
> 
> The host’s comments were [first highlighted by Mediate.](https://www.mediaite.com/tv/joe-scarborough-praises-elon-musk-getting-before-reporters-to-discuss-federal-cuts-extraordinarily-important/) 
> 
> Musk has promised to slash hundreds of millions from the federal budget and cut what he and President Trump have said is wasteful spending at the expense of the American taxpayer.
> 
> The efforts, which have included attempts to dismantle federal agencies, buy out hundreds of thousands of federal workers from their jobs and take over federal payment systems, have sparked widespread condemnation from Democrats and lawsuits that have temporarily stymied Musk’s actions.
> 
> Scarborough argued it will be key for Musk and the White House to work within the constraints of the law and be transparent about what DOGE is doing.
> 
> > “I think Elon Musk getting before reporters, I actually think as much as possible, since his people are running through these government agencies, I think that is extraordinarily important,” the host said. “And it’s also, of course, most important that the letter of the law is followed, that the Constitution is followed, that actually Congress cares about its Article One powers.”

[thehill](https://thehill.com/homenews/media/5140418-joe-scarborough-elon-musk-doge/)
