---
title: "DeSantis: Wife Casey ‘not seeking’ Florida governor bid"
date: "2025-02-13 00:11:03"
summary: "Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis (R ) on Tuesday debunked rumors that his wife, Casey, would run for the job he now occupies in 2026. “It’s not something that she’s seeking out. I think a lot of people are just concerned about the future of the state. But this is not..."
categories:
  - "thehill"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "thehill"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis (R ) on Tuesday debunked rumors that his wife, Casey, would run for the job he now occupies in 2026.

“It’s not something that she’s seeking out. I think a lot of people are just concerned about the future of the state. But this is not anything new,” DeSantis said during a Tuesday interview on Fox News Channel’s “The Ingraham Angle.”

“People have been asking her to do this for a long time. But she’s not seeking to do anything. But it’s flattering that people are asking her to do it,” he added.

An [April poll](https://www.fau.edu/newsdesk/articles/april2024flapoll.php) from Florida Atlantic University and Mainstreet Research showed Florida’s first lady earning support from 38 percent of Republican voters in a hypothetical primary matchup.

DeSantis said he hasn’t spoken with President Trump about the speculation over his wife’s future.

“She’s obviously a great wife and mother to three kids. And she has an inspirational story of overcoming cancer diagnosis, fighting through that and coming out stronger on the other end.” he told Ingrahm.

“And, you know, she’s one of the rare political spouses, even though I’m probably the most conservative governor in the country, she may even be more conservative than me.”

Rep. Byron Donalds (R-Fla.) said he [may enter the race](https://thehill.com/homenews/campaign/5134294-byron-donalds-bill-maher-florida-gubernatorial-bid/) to become Florida’s next governor as has  Rep. Jared Moskowitz (D-Fla.) while some believe the state’s Agriculture Commissioner Wilton Simpson will launch a campaign.

Ron DeSantis is serving his second consecutive term as governor and is term-limited from running again in 2026.

[thehill](https://thehill.com/homenews/campaign/5140582-ron-desantis-wife-not-running/)
