---
title: "California city passes controversial homeless camping ban"
date: "2025-02-12 23:56:04"
summary: "FREMONT, Calif. (KRON) — A controversial homeless camping ban has passed in Fremont, California, despite hundreds of people voicing their concerns during a city council meeting on Tuesday. The ordinance, which allows the city to fine those who help the homeless and makes it illegal for homeless people to camp..."
categories:
  - "thehill"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "thehill"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

FREMONT, Calif. ([KRON](https://www.kron4.com/news/bay-area/fremont-passes-controversial-homeless-camping-ban/)) — A controversial homeless camping ban has passed in Fremont, California, despite hundreds of people voicing their concerns during a city council meeting on Tuesday.

The ordinance, which allows the city to fine those who help the homeless and makes it illegal for homeless people to camp on public property, was approved in a 6-1 vote after more than two hours of public comments.

More than 800 homeless people are living in Fremont, about 30 miles southeast of Oakland, according to the city’s latest count in 2024.

According to the ordinance, camping is prohibited on city streets, sidewalks and parks. The measure also targets anyone who is “causing, permitting, aiding, abetting or concealing” a homeless encampment.

In Fremont, that offense would be considered a misdemeanor, which could lead to a $1,000 fine and six months in jail.

[Republican lawmakers urge Trump to respect federal court rulings](https://www.kron4.com/news/national/republican-lawmakers-urge-trump-to-respect-federal-court-rulings/) 

The passed ordinance does not clarify what the city means by “aiding” and “abetting.” The council had the chance to postpone the measure to clarify the language, but decided not to wait and pass the ordinance “as is.”

Fremont Mayor Raj Salwan said the city will not punish people who are trying to support the homeless by giving them resources like water, but it would punish those who try to help set up encampments and makeshift wooden structures.

Prior to Tuesday’s meeting, opponents to the measure [called on council members to vote against it](https://www.kron4.com/news/bay-area/fremont-to-vote-on-controversial-homeless-camping-ban/).

“To criminalize an already vulnerable population is not the best we are nor the best we can be as a community,” Compassionate Fremont, a community organization, wrote on social media.

Those who spoke out during the public comment period said the move would only expend resources and not support the city’s homeless population.

The ordinance did receive support from the Fremont Police Association.

“Repeatedly dealing with some of these individuals can unnecessarily place firefighters and police officers in harms [sic] way,” the organization said on social media before Tuesday’s vote. “The passage of this ordinance allows the public safety experts to appropriately address public safety issues while still [providing] resources to our unhoused community members.”

Mayor Salwan did not say when the measure would go into effect.

[thehill](https://thehill.com/homenews/5140549-fremont-california-homeless-camping-ban/)
