---
title: "White House acknowledges disagreement with Jordan over relocating Palestinians"
date: "2025-02-13 03:41:15"
summary: "The White House on Wednesday acknowledged disagreement between President Trump and King Abdullah II of Jordon over Trump’s pitch to relocate Palestinians from the Gaza Strip and the U.S. taking over the territory. Press secretary Karoline Leavitt told reporters that while Abdullah opposes Palestinians from leaving Gaza, Trump is committed..."
categories:
  - "thehill"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "thehill"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The White House on Wednesday acknowledged disagreement between President Trump and King Abdullah II of Jordon over Trump’s pitch to relocate Palestinians from the Gaza Strip and the U.S. taking over the territory.

Press secretary Karoline Leavitt told reporters that while Abdullah opposes Palestinians from leaving Gaza, Trump is committed to moving them out of the Strip and into neighboring countries, including Jordan.

“The king would prefer that the Palestinians stay in place with the additional land to be used for new development, which would greatly create jobs at levels never seen before. The president feels it would be much better and more majestic if these Palestinians could be moved to safer areas,” she said.

Following a White House visit on Tuesday, the king said in a statement that Arab nations are [unified in their opposition](https://thehill.com/homenews/5139130-king-abdullah-jordan-trump-palestinians/) to Trump’s plan of relocation, posting on X that Jordan is “steadfast” against displacement of Palestinians in Gaza and the West Bank.

Trump has for the past week [pushed the idea](https://thehill.com/homenews/administration/5129814-donald-trump-gaza-strip-us-troops/) that the U.S. take control of Gaza — a proposal that he first announced in White House a press conference alongside Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu. His proposal including redeveloping the area, including with hotels.

Leavitt on Wednesday said that Trump is “wholeheartedly committed to seeing peace in the Middle East” and tasked Arab partners in the region to come up with a peace plan.

Overall, she said that Trump had a “wonderful meeting” with the king and they discussed the future of Gaza “at great length.” She acknowledged that Jordan [pledged to take in](https://thehill.com/homenews/administration/5138756-jordan-children-trump-aid-backpedal/) 2,000 sick Palestinian children, which Trump has praised as a “beautiful gesture.”

“The administration continues to work with our Arab partners in the region. We stand closely with our ally Israel, and the president has presented this big, new bold idea to secure peace in the Middle East, and he’s not going to waiver from that,” Leavitt said.

Trump on Monday was asked if he would withhold aid from Jordan and Egypt “if they don’t take in the Palestinians” and he responded, “sure, why not?” The president appeared to soften his stance the next day, telling reporters, “I don’t have to threaten that.”

Following Leavitt’s remarks, Trump released [a video](https://x.com/WhiteHouse/status/1889758257318674505) later on Wednesday directed at the people of Jordan, praising the king.

“King Abdullah is one of the true great leaders of the world. And I just want to tell you, you’re lucky to have him,” he said.

[thehill](https://thehill.com/homenews/administration/5141268-trump-jordan-palestinians/)
