---
title: "Murkowski backs Kennedy for HHS secretary despite ‘concerns’"
date: "2025-02-13 02:41:10"
summary: "Sen. Lisa Murkowski (R-Alaska) announced that she will support Robert F. Kennedy Jr’s bid to head the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) despite having “concerns” about his views on vaccines and “his selective interpretation of scientific studies.” “Instead of focusing on who covers our exorbitant healthcare costs, we..."
categories:
  - "thehill"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "thehill"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Sen. Lisa Murkowski (R-Alaska) announced that she will support Robert F. Kennedy Jr’s bid to head the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) despite having “concerns” about his views on vaccines and “his selective interpretation of scientific studies.”

“Instead of focusing on who covers our exorbitant healthcare costs, we need to reduce these costs by directing our attention to prevention and keeping people healthy. This is the appeal of RFK, and many Alaskans have shared that view with me,” Murkowski said in a Wednesday [post](https://x.com/lisamurkowski/status/1889727179426287910) on X. “Chronic conditions are a significant source of illness and major drivers of public debt; he recognizes this and is committed to addressing it.”

The Alaska Senator said that Kennedy, a longtime anti-vaccine activist, made “numerous” commitments to her and fellow senators, including that he “would do nothing to make it difficult for people to take vaccines or discourage vaccination efforts.”

“I continue to have concerns about Mr. Kennedy’s views on vaccines and his selective interpretation of scientific studies, which initially caused my misgivings about his nomination,” Murkowski said, adding that Kennedy, a former 2024 presidential candidate, promised to work with Congress to make sure the public has access to information and base recommendations for vaccines on “data-driven, evidence-based, and medically sound research.”

“These commitments are important to me and, on balance, provide assurance for my vote,” the GOP senator said.

On Wednesday, the Senate ended debate on Kennedy’s nomination with a 53-47 [vote](https://thehill.com/policy/healthcare/5139220-kennedy-nomination-advances/), bringing him a step closer to confirmation. Kennedy had two Senate hearings, that at times were heated, where he argued that he was not anti-vaccine.

Democrats are still not ready to back him.

“Republicans are choosing to pretend like it is in any way believable that RFK Jr. won’t use his new power to do exactly the thing he has been trying to do for decades: undermine vaccines,” said Sen. Patty Murray (D-Wash.) on Tuesday.

Sen. Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.), the other GOP upper chamber lawmaker who was seen as a toss-up vote, advanced Kennedy’s nomination on Wednesday.

McConnell, the former Senate majority leader, did not meet with Kennedy before his hearings. The Kentucky Republican voted to advance Pete Hegseth’s nomination for defense secretary but ultimately voted against him during the confirmation vote.

“I am encouraged by the time he has spent among indigenous peoples, his commitment to tribal sovereignty, and his promised attention to the Indian Health Service,” Murkowski wrote about Kennedy. “He has spent time in rural Alaska and understands some of the unique public health challenges we face that require complex solutions. There is much shared work ahead to achieve better public health outcomes, and I will push Mr. Kennedy to realize these goals.”

[thehill](https://thehill.com/homenews/senate/5141078-murkowski-backs-kennedy-for-hhs-secretary-despite-concerns/)
