---
title: "Education Department launches Title IX probes over trans athlete policies"
date: "2025-02-13 05:46:05"
summary: "The Department of Education announced on Wednesday it is investigating two state athletic associations that say they will not abide by the Trump administration’s Title IX rules that forbid transgender girls and women from participating on sports teams that align with their gender identity. Local outlets have reported that both..."
categories:
  - "thehill"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "thehill"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The Department of Education announced on Wednesday it is investigating two state athletic associations that say they will not abide by the Trump administration’s Title IX rules that forbid transgender girls and women from participating on sports teams that align with their gender identity.

Local outlets have reported that both the Minnesota State High School League (MSHSL) and the California Interscholastic Federation (CIF) have said they will instead abide by state law and allow transgender athletes in women’s sports.

“The Minnesota State High School League and the California Interscholastic Federation are free to engage in all the meaningless virtue-signaling that they want, but at the end of the day they must abide by federal law,” said Acting Assistant Education Secretary for Civil Rights Craig Trainor.

The department’s Office of Civil Rights, Trainor said, will conduct investigations “to ensure that female athletes in these states are treated with the dignity, respect, and equality that the Trump Administration demands.”

CIF said “has been notified of the investigation” but will not comment on it, while MSHSL did not immediately respond to The Hill’s request for comment.

Both groups put out the statements last week in support of transgender athletes.

MSHSL said in a statement their policies are “determined by state law, through the Minnesota Human Rights Act and the Minnesota Constitution,” local outlet Fox 9 KMSP [reported](https://www.fox9.com/news/mshsl-mn-state-law-transgender-athletes-trump).

Anti-discrimination laws in Minnesota include discrimination on the basis of gender identity.

“Therefore, students in Minnesota are allowed to participate consistent with their gender identity. League Member Schools have done excellent work in respecting students and their individual situations as they determine their participation and eligibility within interscholastic sports,” the group said.

CIF also said it would abide by state law that allows students to participate in school activities based on gender identity.

“The CIF provides students with the opportunity to belong, connect, and compete in education-based experiences in compliance with California law [Education Code section 221.5. (f)] which permits students to participate in school programs and activities, including athletic teams and competitions, consistent with the student’s gender identity, irrespective of the gender listed on the student’s records,” a CIF statement said, Fox News [reported](https://www.foxnews.com/sports/california-plans-continue-allowing-trans-athletes-compete-girls-sports-despite-trump-executive-order).

Earlier Wednesday, the Trump Education Department also called on sports organizations to strip transgender athletes of [records and awards](https://thehill.com/homenews/lgbtq/5140745-education-department-trans-athletes-trump-executive-order-ncaa-nfhs/) they had received in their sports.

And the same day, a federal judge granted a request [by two transgender high school athletes](https://thehill.com/homenews/lgbtq/5141210-new-hampshire-high-school-trans-athelete-ban/) to add the Trump administration onto a lawsuit in New Hampshire that is challenging state law keeping them off teams that match their gender identity.

The growing fight — and the Title IX shift from Biden policies that defended trans rights — come after Trump signed an executive order that said these individuals could not play on the teams that matched their gender identity. The president has also ordered the federal government to recognize only two sexes, male and female.

San José State University, the University of Pennsylvania (Penn) and the Massachusetts Interscholastic Athletic Association (MIAA) are also [under investigation](https://thehill.com/homenews/lgbtq/5131316-education-department-transgender-athletes-trump-executive-order-penn-sjsu/) by the department for “apparent Title IX violations” for having transgender athletes on their women’s sports teams.

“We are putting every school receiving taxpayer dollars on notice: If you let men take over women’s sports teams or invade your locker rooms, you will be investigated for violations of Title IX and risk your federal funding,” Trump said.

[thehill](https://thehill.com/homenews/education/5141630-education-department-title-ix-trans-athlete-trump/)
