---
title: "Lawyer for Vince McMahon says criminal probe ‘definitively concluded’ with no charges"
date: "2025-02-13 06:01:33"
summary: "A lawyer for Vince McMahon said Wednesday that Manhattan federal prosecutors have dropped their criminal probe into whether the World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE) co-founder attempted to cover up multiple allegations of sexual misconduct. “We have been in consistent communication with the government and understand, with no ambiguity, that the investigation..."
categories:
  - "thehill"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "thehill"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

A lawyer for Vince McMahon said Wednesday that Manhattan federal prosecutors have dropped their criminal probe into whether the World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE) co-founder attempted to cover up multiple allegations of sexual misconduct.

“We have been in consistent communication with the government and understand, with no ambiguity, that the investigation has definitively concluded and will not result in charges,” McMahon attorney Robert Allen said in a statement.

The Hill requested comment from the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Southern District of New York. The New York Post [first reported](https://nypost.com/2025/02/12/us-news/criminal-probe-into-wwe-boss-vince-mcmahon-dropped-lawyer/) the investigation’s apparent conclusion.

A federal grand jury was investigating how the former WWE boss, who retired in 2022, handled multimillion-dollar settlement agreements with two female employees who accused him of sexual abuse.

On Friday, a federal appeals court [in ruling](https://storage.courtlistener.com/recap/gov.uscourts.ca2.105e1bd0-d235-494a-a290-68d8ea90f72d/gov.uscourts.ca2.105e1bd0-d235-494a-a290-68d8ea90f72d.110.0.pdf) that McMahon wrongfully withheld some documents from the grand jury indicated that the proceeding was still “currently before a grand jury,” despite no indictments having been issued.

The New York Post, citing an anonymous source, reported that prosecutors decided to drop the probe some time between Sept. 18 and Jan. 10, when the Securities and Exchange Commission [announced its settlements](https://www.sec.gov/newsroom/press-releases/2025-1) with McMahon resolving the cover-up claims.

According to the SEC’s order, McMahon signed two settlement agreements on behalf of himself and WWE without disclosing the agreements to its board of directors and other critical personnel.

One agreement obligated McMahon to pay a former employee $3 million in exchange for her silence about their “ongoing relations,” and the other obligated him to pay a former WWE independent contractor $7.5 million to keep secret her allegations against him.

Because of the payments, WWE overstated its 2018 net income by roughly 8 percent and its 2021 income by about 1.7 percent, according to the SEC.

McMahon consented to the entry of the SEC’s order finding he violated the Securities and Exchange Act and that he made false statements to WWE’s auditor, in addition to his actions causing WWE’s violation of the law. He did not admit or deny the findings, but agreed to pay a $400,000 civil penalty and reimburse WWE more than 1.3 million.

[Linda McMahon,](https://thehill.com/people/linda-mcmahon/) McMahon’s wife and [President Trump’s](https://thehill.com/people/donald-trump/)pick for Education secretary, is set to face senators Thursday for her confirmation hearing as a fight builds over the future of the Department of Education.

[thehill](https://thehill.com/regulation/court-battles/5141606-mcmahon-probe-dropped/)
