---
title: "Tulsi Gabbard sworn in as top intelligence chief in Oval Office"
date: "2025-02-13 05:21:09"
summary: "Tulsi Gabbard was sworn in as director of national intelligence on Wednesday in the Oval Office, hours after the Senate confirmed her. Attorney General Pam Bondi administered the oath of office to Gabbard, whom Trump called “an American of extraordinary courage and patriotism.” He noted that she was deployed three..."
categories:
  - "thehill"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "thehill"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Tulsi Gabbard was sworn in as director of national intelligence on Wednesday in the Oval Office, hours after the Senate confirmed her.

Attorney General Pam Bondi administered the oath of office to Gabbard, whom Trump called “an American of extraordinary courage and patriotism.” He noted that she was deployed three times in the Army National Guard and that she is a former Democratic congresswoman, riffing “can you believe that?”

Gabbard thanked the president for his trust in her and vowed to “refocus our intelligence community” after she was sworn in.

“Unfortunately, the American people have very little trust in the intelligence community, largely because they’ve seen the weaponization and politicization of an entity that is supposed to be purely focused on ensuring our national security,” the new intelligence chief said.

The Senate voted to confirm her [in a 52-48 vote](https://thehill.com/homenews/senate/5140620-senate-confirms-tulsi-gabbard-intelligence-chief/), following two months of deliberations in the over whether Gabbard is qualified enough to lead the intelligence agencies and prepare Trump’s daily intelligence brief.

Former Senate GOP Leader [Mitch McConnell](https://thehill.com/people/mitch-mcconnell/) (Ky.) was [the only Republican](https://thehill.com/homenews/senate/5140808-mitch-mcconnell-tulsi-gabbard-dni/) to vote against her. No Democrats backed her.

“Throughout our service, Tulsi has always distinguished herself as a leader of the highest caliber, she’s earned the respect and admiration, the love of Americans on both sides of the aisle as her profound commitment to the values that keep us free. And she really does have those values as much as anybody,” Trump said in his comments about Gabbard in the Oval Office.

Gabbard was considered [one of Trump’s more controversial nominees](https://thehill.com/homenews/senate/5038091-tulsi-gabbard-struggles-senators/), and she came [under heavy scrutiny](https://thehill.com/homenews/5117815-tulsi-gabbard-snowden-controversy/) over her past opposition to expanded surveillance authority under the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act, as well as her refusal to call former government contractor [Edward Snowden](https://thehill.com/people/edward-snowden/)a traitor.

Vice President Vance, who was traveling in Europe during the swearing-in, [has been credited](https://thehill.com/homenews/senate/5133547-vance-senate-trump-nominees/) with helping persuade skeptical senators to support Gabbard, especially Sen. Todd Young (R-Ind.), who had grilled her in a hearing about Snowden.

[thehill](https://thehill.com/homenews/administration/5141579-tulsi-gabbard-sworn-in-director-national-intelligence/)
