---
title: "Melania Trump announces White House public tours opening date"
date: "2025-02-13 05:26:00"
summary: "The White House is opening its doors again to public tours for the first time during President Trump’s second term. Public tours of 1600 Pennsylvania Ave. will open on Feb. 25, according to a Wednesday announcement from the first lady’s office. “The President and I are excited to reopen the..."
categories:
  - "thehill"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "thehill"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The White House is opening its doors again to public tours for the first time during President Trump’s second term.

Public tours of 1600 Pennsylvania Ave. will open on Feb. 25, [according to](https://x.com/FLOTUS/status/1889752560975880352) a Wednesday announcement from the first lady’s office.

“The President and I are excited to reopen the White House to those interested in the extraordinary story of this iconic and beautiful landmark,” Melania Trump said in a statement.

“There is much to learn about the American Presidency, the First Families who have lived here, and our Nation’s rich history from a firsthand experience at the White House,” she added.

“This opportunity is unique among nations around the globe — a tradition we are honored to continue for the hundreds of thousands of visitors who come each year.”

The self-guided tours, scheduled on a first-come-first-served basis, “must be requested through Members of Congress, and requests may be submitted up to three months in advance,” according to the White House.

Last October, just months before President Biden left office, Jill Biden [announced a](https://thehill.com/blogs/in-the-know/4944373-white-house-public-tour-modernization/) revamped public tour of the White House that included digital exhibits, an expanded route and additional access to rooms.

The then-first lady said at the time that the makeover was part of a reimagined tour experience, aimed at including “more educational content and story-telling, while also preserving and protecting its history.”

[thehill](https://thehill.com/blogs/in-the-know/5141629-melania-trump-white-house-public-tours/)
