---
title: "Trump on whether Ukraine, Russia are equal in peace talks: ‘It’s an interesting question’"
date: "2025-02-13 06:16:10"
summary: "President Trump on Wednesday would not say whether he considers Ukraine to be an “equal member” of efforts to end the war between Moscow and Kyiv, as his administration pushes for negotiations between the Russia and the neighbor it invaded in 2022. “It’s an interesting question,” Trump said in the..."
categories:
  - "thehill"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "thehill"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

President Trump on Wednesday would not say whether he considers Ukraine to be an “equal member” of efforts to end the war between Moscow and Kyiv, as his administration pushes for negotiations between the Russia and the neighbor it invaded in 2022.

“It’s an interesting question,” Trump said in the Oval Office when asked if he viewed Ukraine as an equal member of the process.

“I think they have to make peace. Their people are being killed, and I think they have to make peace. I said that was not a good war to go into, and I think they have to make peace. That’s what I think.”

Trump said Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky would “have to do what he has to do” when asked about the prospect of ceding territory as part of negotiations to end the war.

Trump claimed Zelensky’s poll numbers were sinking, and he reiterated his belief that Europe should be doing more to support Ukraine because of its proximity to the conflict.

Trump also called it “unlikely” that Ukraine would return to its pre-2014 borders, before Russia seized Crimea, as part of a negotiated ceasefire.

“They took a lot of land, and they fought for that land and they lost a lot of soldiers,” Trump said. “I’m not making an opinion on it, but I’ve read a lot on it, and a lot of people think that’s unlikely. Some of it will come back. I think some of it will come back, yeah.”

Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth said [earlier Wednesday](https://www.nytimes.com/2025/02/12/world/europe/ukraine-war-hegseth-nato.html) with NATO and Ukrainian defense ministers that it was “unrealistic” for Ukraine to return to its pre-2014 borders as part of a ceasefire agreement with Russia or to gain NATO membership.

Some critics suggested Hegseth’s comments may have taken away some of Ukraine’s leverage in negotiations, though Trump brushed off a question about whether that was the case.

Trump spoke earlier in the day with both Zelensky and Russian President Vladimir Putin and made clear in both calls that his administration was pushing to begin negotiations to end the war in Ukraine. The conflict began in February 2022 when Russian forces invaded Ukraine.

“No one wants peace more than Ukraine,” Zelensky posted on X after his call with Trump. “Together with the U.S., we are charting our next steps to stop Russian aggression and ensure a lasting, reliable peace. As President Trump said, let’s get it done.”

The Biden administration made support for Ukraine from the U.S. and its allies central to its foreign policy, approving billions of dollars in military and financial assistance. But Trump campaigned on a pledge to end the war in Ukraine, and Wednesday’s comments signal those efforts are getting more serious.

Vice President Vance is expected to [meet with Zelensky](https://thehill.com/policy/international/5138435-vance-bessent-zelensky-ukraine-russia-war/) this week during a trip to Europe for the Munich Security Conference. Treasury Secretary Scott Bessent was also dispatched to Ukraine to meet with Zelensky as the U.S. [pursues a deal](https://apnews.com/article/russia-ukraine-war-rare-earth-elements-trump-6a4a95d4370a2e46a81ce4a3a352bf8f) for more access to Ukraine’s critical minerals.

Trump also said he [expected to meet](https://thehill.com/homenews/administration/5141580-trump-putin-meet-saudi-arabia/) with Putin in Saudi Arabia, though he did not suggest a specific timing for that meeting.

[thehill](https://thehill.com/homenews/administration/5141716-trump-ukraine-war-negotiations/)
