---
title: "Kamala Harris is Democratic frontrunner for California governor in 2026: Poll"
date: "2025-02-13 19:01:36"
summary: "Former Vice President Harris would be the Democratic frontrunner for governor of California if she jumped into the Golden State’s 2026 race to replace Gov. Gavin Newsom (D), new polling shows. Harris snagged support for a hypothetical gubernatorial bid from nearly 6 in 10 Democratic primary voters in California, 57..."
categories:
  - "thehill"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "thehill"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Former Vice President Harris would be the Democratic frontrunner for governor of California if she jumped into the Golden State’s 2026 race to replace Gov. Gavin Newsom (D), new polling shows.

Harris snagged support for a hypothetical gubernatorial bid from nearly 6 in 10 Democratic primary voters in California, 57 percent, according to a survey from Emerson College Polling/Inside California Politics/The Hill.

Former Rep. Katie Porter (D-Calif.), who left the House to mount an unsuccessful Senate bid last year, followed at 9 percent support.

Ex-Speaker of the California State Assembly Antonio Villaraigosa and sitting Lt. Gov. Eleni Kounalaki (D) brought in 4 percent each, and another 17 percent were undecided.

Since losing her 2024 White House bid, speculation has swirled over [what’s next for Harris](https://thehill.com/homenews/campaign/5005513-whats-next-for-kamala-harris/). Some see an opening for her to succeed California’s current Gov. Gavin Newsom (D), who is term-limited and expected to have national ambitions. As former state attorney general and U.S. senator, Harris has long ties to California, and her national profile and experience could set her up for success there.

Harris on Friday [shrugged off questions](https://thehill.com/homenews/state-watch/5132872-california-gubernatorial-bid-vp-harris/) about a possible gubernatorial bid so soon after her presidential run.

“I have been home for two weeks and three days. My plans are to be in touch with my community, to be in touch with the leaders and figure out what I can do to support them,” she told reporters after visiting areas impacted by recent wildfires.

“I am here and would be here regardless of the office I hold, because it is the right thing to do, which is to show up in your community and thank the folks who are on the ground.”

Others think the former vice president could try again for the Oval Office in 2028.

With Harris out of the picture, support for Porter in the poll jumped up to 21 percent, followed by Villaraigosa at 9 percent and Kounalakis at 5 percent — and a whopping 45 percent of Democratic primary voters were undecided.

“If Vice President Harris enters the Democratic Primary, she would start as the clear favorite,” said Spencer Kimball, executive director of Emerson College Polling. “Without Harris in the race, the primary is wide open.”

The polling was conducted Feb. 10-11 among 1,000 California registered voters, and had a margin of error of plus or minus 3 percentage points. Among the 469 Democratic primary voters, the credibility interval was plus or minus 4.5 percentage points.

[thehill](https://thehill.com/homenews/campaign/5141391-kamala-harris-democratic-frontrunner-for-california-governor-in-2026-poll/)
