---
title: "DOGE panel Democrat jabs Musk by invoking Greene’s use of inappropriate photo"
date: "2025-02-13 03:01:21"
summary: "Rep. Robert Garcia (D-Calif.) knocked billionaire Elon Musk in the first Delivering on Government Efficiency (DOGE) subcommittee hearing Wednesday, while referring to the tech mogul as a “d–k.” Garcia cited Greene’s previous display of sexually explicit pictures of Hunter Biden during a House Oversight Committee hearing in 2023. “In the..."
categories:
  - "thehill"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "thehill"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Rep. Robert Garcia (D-Calif.) knocked billionaire Elon Musk in the first Delivering on Government Efficiency (DOGE) subcommittee hearing Wednesday, while referring to the tech mogul as a “d–k.”

Garcia cited Greene’s previous display of sexually explicit pictures of Hunter Biden during a House Oversight Committee hearing [in 2023](https://thehill.com/homenews/house/4106303-greene-displays-sexual-images-of-hunter-biden-at-irs-whistleblower-hearing/).

“In the last Congress, Chairwoman Greene literally showed a d–k pic in an Oversight congressional hearing, so I thought I’d bring one as well,” Garcia said, before his staff displayed a poster of Musk to laughs in the hearing room.

He then went on to refer to the mogul as “President Elon Musk” and accused him of “leading a power grab,” as Trump’s Department of Government Efficiency, also known as DOGE and headed up by Musk, sets sights on ambitious cuts to federal spending.

He also invoked Kendrick Lamar’s “Not Like Us” in his statements criticizing Trump and Musk.

After reports emerged of a 19-year-old “DOGE engineer,” Garcia quipped, “They’re trying to rob you .. and they’re probably a minor.”

The hearing marks the first of the year under the newly-formed DOGE subcommittee and is focused on improper payments and fraud.

Democrats have been needling Trump and Musk as his administration works to shrink the size of the government, as well as efforts to dismantle offices like the United States Agency for International Development (USAID) that have been [curbed](https://thehill.com/regulation/court-battles/5133652-judge-limited-order-usaid/) in the courts.

Rep. William Timmons (R-S.C.) took aim at Democrats shortly after Garcia’s comments, while defending recent actions by the Trump administration to cut spending.

“I find it sad that my colleagues across the aisle can’t take this seriously. We have $36 trillion in debt,” he said. “We run an annual almost $2 trillion deficit.”

“President Trump ran on fixing this problem,” he said. “President Trump told the American people he would right the ship financially, and he said during the campaign that Elon Musk was going to be the person to lead this charge, the man that has turned business after business around.”

[thehill](https://thehill.com/homenews/house/5141150-garcia-rips-musk-in-first-doge-hearing/)
