---
title: "Senate confirms Brooke Rollins to lead USDA"
date: "2025-02-14 01:15:55"
summary: "The Senate on Thursday overwhelmingly confirmed Brooke Rollins to lead the Department of Agriculture as the chamber kept up its intense pace to confirm President Trump’s choices to head his administration. Senators voted 72-28 on her bid to lead the USDA. Democrats agreed to condense floor time for the nomination..."
categories:
  - "thehill"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "thehill"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The Senate on Thursday overwhelmingly confirmed Brooke Rollins to lead the Department of Agriculture as the chamber kept up its intense pace to confirm President Trump’s choices to head his administration.

Senators voted 72-28 on her bid to lead the USDA.

Democrats agreed to condense floor time for the nomination after she was voted unanimously out of the Senate Committee on Agriculture.

Rollins is expected to work with lawmakers on the Farm Bill, which has stalled out in recent months, and on priorities related to doling out billions of dollars in assistance for farmers. She also received wide backing from major farm organizations.

Although she does not have a background in agriculture, Rollins headed the Domestic Policy Council under Trump’s first term and was part of the Office of American Innovation, which was shuttered by the Biden White House. She also led the America First Policy Institute after Trump’s 2020 loss.

The move means that Trump has had 16 nominees approved in less than four weeks — a total that far outpaces totals seen during his first term or former President Biden’s time in office.

By Feb. 13 in his first stint in office, Trump had 11 nominees in place. He did not get his 16th nominee confirmed until March 1.

Biden only seven picks confirmed by this point. His 16th choice was not cemented until March 10.

[thehill](https://thehill.com/homenews/senate/5142928-senate-brooke-rollins-usda/)
