---
title: "McConnell warns of ‘big, lingering concerns’ with Trump tariff plan"
date: "2025-02-13 09:21:30"
summary: "Former Senate Republican Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) on Wednesday warned of “big, lingering concerns” with President Trump’s tariff plan. “In recent weeks, the president sought to impose sweeping tariffs on Mexico, Canada and China, as well as key imports, such as steel and aluminum,” McConnell said in an opinion piece..."
categories:
  - "thehill"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "thehill"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Former Senate Republican Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) on Wednesday warned of “big, lingering concerns” with President Trump’s tariff plan.

“In recent weeks, the president sought to impose sweeping tariffs on Mexico, Canada and China, as well as key imports, such as steel and aluminum,” McConnell said in an opinion [piece for The Courier Journal](https://www.courier-journal.com/story/opinion/contributors/2025/02/12/trump-tariffs-damage-kentucky-economy-bourbon-mcconnell/78393549007/).

“While the administration walked back plans to levy 25% duties on imports from Mexico and Canada — paused now for 30 days as both nations brokered deals to tighten border security and crack down on illegal drugs — the president’s aggressive proposals leave big, lingering concerns for American industry and workers,” the Kentucky Republican added.

Earlier this month, [President Trump signed orders imposing](https://thehill.com/business/5122629-stock-market-trump-tariffs-canada-mexico-china/) 25 percent tariffs on Canadian and Mexican products. Within the next few days, Trump [came to an agreement](https://thehill.com/homenews/administration/5124026-trump-trudeau-canada-tariff-delay/) with Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau and Mexican President Claudia Sheinbaum to delay [tariffs for at least](https://thehill.com/homenews/administration/5122864-trump-mexico-delay-tariffs/) a month.

Trump also imposed a 10 percent tariff on all imports from China, prompting China to announce retaliatory tariffs targeting liquefied natural gas, coal, farm machinery and other products from the United States. On Monday, he signed off on new tariffs on [steel and aluminum imports](https://thehill.com/homenews/administration/5137125-trump-steel-aluminum-tariffs/) into the United States to crack down on attempts by China and Russia to evade penalties.

“Indeed, it’s high time for America’s closest neighbors to take the crisis at our border seriously. But no matter our best intentions, tariffs are bad policy,” McConnell said. “As Sen. Rand Paul, put it: ‘Tariffs are simply taxes… Taxing trade will mean less trade and higher prices.’ So Republicans ought to be clear-eyed about the full, unadulterated impact of tariffs as we work to restore sound fiscal policy to our government.”

McConnell [recently criticized tariffs](https://thehill.com/homenews/senate/5122566-trump-economic-agenda-tariffs/) on Canada and Mexico from Trump during an interview with Lesley Stahl on CBS’s “60 Minutes.”

“It will drive the cost of everything up. In other words, it will be paid for by American consumers. I mean, why would you want to get into a fight with your allies over this?” McConnell said in the interview.

The Hill has reached out to the White House for comment.

[thehill](https://thehill.com/homenews/senate/5142111-mcconnell-trump-tariff-plan/)
