---
title: "Stars flee Kennedy Center groups after Trump seizes chair"
date: "2025-02-13 08:35:53"
summary: "President Trump’s election ascension to chair of The Kennedy Center on Wednesday led to multiple departures from the Washington, D.C., institution. Trump, last week, announced he was replacing several members of the Kennedy Center’s Board of Trustees and would name himself chair. On Wednesday, the new board elected Trump as..."
categories:
  - "thehill"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "thehill"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

President Trump’s election ascension to chair of The Kennedy Center on Wednesday led to multiple departures from the Washington, D.C., institution.

Trump, last week, [announced](https://thehill.com/blogs/in-the-know/5133803-trump-kennedy-center-board-chair-rubenstein/) he was replacing several members of the Kennedy Center’s Board of Trustees and would name himself chair. On Wednesday, the new board [elected](https://thehill.com/blogs/in-the-know/5141407-kennedy-center-board-trump-chairman/) Trump as chairman of the board.

At approximately the same time that Trump announced his chairmanship, musician Ben Folds [said he would resign](https://www.instagram.com/p/DF_AzOQpxSJ/?hl=en) as artistic adviser to the National Symphony Orchestra, “given developments at the Kennedy Center.”

“It’s been a wonderful 8 years” the former Ben Folds Five singer wrote on Instagram on Wednesday, saying he and the Kennedy Center’s staff encouraged “thousands of fresh new audiences to appreciate symphonic music.”

The award-winning opera singer and actress, Renée Fleming, said she would depart from her role as Artistic Advisor at Large to The Kennedy Center.

She praised David Rubenstein, whom Trump replaced as chairman, saying his leadership is “just one of the many ways he has contributed to America’s cultural and historic heritage. He is the greatest patriot I know.”

Fleming also praised Deborah Rutter, whom the board fired Wednesday as president of the Kennedy Center, saying she “has been a tireless, creative leader, successfully expanding our National Center for the Arts in visionary ways.”

“They have both been an inspiration to me; and out of respect, I think it right to depart as well,” Fleming continued. “I’ve treasured the bi-partisan support for this institution as a beacon of America at our best. I hope the Kennedy Center continues to flourish and serve the passionate and diverse audience in our nation’s capital and across the country.”

Shonda Rhimes, the renowned television writer and producer, also reportedly resigned from the board after serving as the Kennedy Center’s treasurer.

“Please be advised that as of today, Shonda Rhimes has resigned from the board of the Kennedy Center,” a spokesperson for Rhimes told Deadline.

The Hill has reached out to her representation for comment.

Trump said on Wednesday it is a “Great Honor” to serve as chairman of The Kennedy Center’s Board of Trustees, saying on social media, “We will make The Kenney Center a very special and exciting place!”

A White House official told The Hill the president participated in the board meeting on Wednesday to elect him.

The Kennedy Center confirmed Trump’s election as its board chairman in a Wednesday news release, saying that and other leadership changes were “effectively immediately.”

“The Board also terminated Kennedy Center President Deborah F. Rutter’s contract and announced Richard Grenell as interim Kennedy Center President,” it said in its statement.

Some the board’s new members include: “God Bless the USA” singer and ardent Trump supporter Lee Greenwood, White House chief of staff Susie Wiles, second lady Usha Vance and senior adviser Dan Scavino, among others.

[thehill](https://thehill.com/blogs/in-the-know/5142024-stars-flee-kennedy-center-groups-after-trump-seizes-chair/)
