---
title: "Congressional Hispanic Conference picks new leader"
date: "2025-02-14 03:26:03"
summary: "The Congressional Hispanic Conference (CHC) selected Rep. Tony Gonzales (R-Texas) as its leader for the 119th Congress. The organization, which was founded in 2003, elected Gonzales, who represents Texas’s 23rd Congressional District, on Wednesday. “Hispanic Americans voted decisively for strong leadership—leadership that acts, doesn’t just talk. Our voices helped build..."
categories:
  - "thehill"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "thehill"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The Congressional Hispanic Conference (CHC) selected Rep. Tony Gonzales (R-Texas) as its leader for the 119th Congress.

The organization, which was founded in 2003, elected Gonzales, who represents Texas’s 23rd Congressional District, on Wednesday.

“Hispanic Americans voted decisively for strong leadership—leadership that acts, doesn’t just talk. Our voices helped build the Republican trifecta—our members are battle-tested common-sense legislators—they are the majority makers who sit on the most powerful committees in Congress. We have a country to save, and we will not back down in the fight to preserve the American dream, and keep our communities safe,” Gonzales said in a [statement](https://hispanicconference-mariodiazbalart.house.gov/media/press-releases/congressional-hispanic-conference-elects-leadership-119th-congress).

The Republican-sponsored caucus [has](https://hispanicconference-mariodiazbalart.house.gov/members) 11 members. It was initially formed by Rep. Mario Díaz-Balart (R-Fla.) “to emphasize both national and international issues that have a significant impact on the Hispanic community in the United States.”

Díaz-Balart said the increased number of Hispanic people and individuals from other ethnic minority groups serving as lawmakers in Congress “proves that Americans reject the failed policies of the left – policies that have driven inflation to historic levels, sent gas prices soaring, and created the worst border crisis in our country’s history.”

“As a conference, we are committed to defending the values of our constituents and advancing real, common-sense solutions for the American people,” the CHC founder said.

Rep. Nicole Malliotakis (R- N.Y.) was elected as the vice chair of policy. Rep. Carlos Giménez (R-Fla.) will serve as the next vice chair of community outreach. Rep. Monica De La Cruz (R-Texas) will be the vice chair of communications while Rep. Juan Ciscomani (R-Ariz.) was elected as the vice chair of member services.

“As the first naturalized citizen from Mexico to represent Arizona in any federal office, I look forward to working with Chairman Tony Gonzales and all the members of the Congressional Hispanic Conference to continue highlighting Hispanic voices, deliver real results, and make the American Dream attainable again,” Ciscomani said.

[thehill](https://thehill.com/homenews/house/5143618-congressional-hispanic-conference-new-leader/)
