---
title: "Top recording artists press Congress on royalties for songs played on radio"
date: "2025-02-14 00:25:57"
summary: "Hundreds of famous names from across musical genres — including Mariah Carey, Jelly Roll, Barbra Streisand, Celine Dion, Lil Jon, Reba McEntire, Ozzy Osbourne and Stevie Nicks — are calling on Congress to right an “injustice” that they say has robbed them “from being paid on terrestrial radio for decades.”..."
categories:
  - "thehill"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "thehill"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Hundreds of famous names from across musical genres — including Mariah Carey, Jelly Roll, Barbra Streisand, Celine Dion, Lil Jon, Reba McEntire, Ozzy Osbourne and Stevie Nicks — are calling on Congress to right an “injustice” that they say has robbed them “from being paid on terrestrial radio for decades.”

In a Thursday letter to Speaker Mike Johnson (R-La.), House Minority Leader Hakeem Jeffries (D-N.Y.), Senate Majority Leader John Thune (R-S.D.) and Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer (D-N.Y.), more than 300 entertainers urged lawmakers to pass the American Music Fairness Act. The legislation, the group said, would close an “antiquated loophole” and ensure “music creators are paid for their work when it’s played on AM/FM radio.”

“Music creators work incredibly hard to make the sound recordings we all know, love, and value. However, the U.S. continues to be the only democratic nation in the world where artists like us are not paid when our music is played on AM/FM radio,” [the letter](https://musicfirstcoalition.org/wp-content/uploads/2025/02/ArtistLetter.pdf) obtained by ITK said.

“Thankfully, there is legislation to right this injustice that has robbed us from being paid on terrestrial radio for decades,” said the letter, also signed by artists including P!nk, Carly Simon, Lin-Manuel Miranda, Questlove, Gloria Estefan, Miranda Lambert and Aerosmith.

“For decades now, corporate broadcasters have unjustly exploited an antiquated loophole in the law to profit from advertising generated from unlimited use of free music,” the message to lawmakers said.

“This bipartisan bill merely asks radio broadcasters to play by the same rules as digital platforms, streaming services, and others who already pay artists when they play our music,” it said.

Members from the R&B group Boyz II Men headed to Capitol Hill on Thursday to make an in-person push for the legislation. The “End of the Road” singers, including Nathan Morris, Shawn Stockman and Wanyá Morris, were poised to meet with Johnson and other members of Congress.

“We’re proud to be on Capitol Hill today meeting with lawmakers and asking them to pass the American Music Fairness Act,” the Boyz II Men members said in a statement.

“This is an issue about right and wrong. Artists — including background vocalists and musicians — work hard to create music that brings joy to millions. It’s outrageous that big radio companies are able to make billions of dollars each year in ads while denying royalties to the performers whose music attracts listeners in the first place,” the group said.

“We hope that Congress will listen to the voices of artists and pass this bill.”

[thehill](https://thehill.com/blogs/in-the-know/5143061-radio-royalties-music-fairness-act-boyz-ii-men/)
