---
title: "McConnell on RFK Jr.: ‘I will not condone the re-litigation of proven cures’"
date: "2025-02-14 02:05:51"
summary: "Sen. Mitch McConnell issued a blistering indictment of Robert F. Kennedy Jr. Thursday, with the Kentucky Republican saying his childhood bout with polio heavily influenced his decision to vote against Kennedy as Health and Human Services secretary. “In my lifetime, I’ve watched vaccines save millions of lives from devastating diseases..."
categories:
  - "thehill"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "thehill"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Sen. Mitch McConnell issued a blistering indictment of Robert F. Kennedy Jr. Thursday, with the Kentucky Republican saying his childhood bout with polio heavily influenced his decision to vote against Kennedy as Health and Human Services secretary.

“In my lifetime, I’ve watched vaccines save millions of lives from devastating diseases across America and around the world. I will not condone the re-litigation of proven cures, and neither will millions of Americans who credit their survival and quality of life to scientific miracles,” McConnell said in a statement.

The Senate confirmed the longtime anti-vaccine activist to lead the Department of Health and Human Services Thursday by a vote of 52 to 48. McConnell was the only Republican to vote no, despite other senators indicating they had lingering concerns over Kennedy’s vaccine views.

“Individuals, parents, and families have a right to push for a healthier nation and demand the best possible scientific guidance on preventing and treating illness. But a record of trafficking in dangerous conspiracy theories and eroding trust in public health institutions does not entitle Mr. Kennedy to lead these important efforts,” the former Senate majority leader said.

McConnell [was also the lone GOP no vote](https://thehill.com/homenews/senate/5140620-senate-confirms-tulsi-gabbard-intelligence-chief/) against Tulsi Gabbard as director of national intelligence and one of only three Republicans who [opposed Pete Hegseth as Defense secretary](https://thehill.com/homenews/senate/5106171-pete-hegseth-defense-secretary-confirmed/).

During a pair of contentious confirmation hearings last month, Kennedy denied he was anti-vaccine, despite refusing to disavow his promotion of a debunked link between vaccines and autism. Instead, Kennedy painted himself as pro-vaccine safety, contending that vaccines aren’t tested enough, something experts say is not true.

“This Administration — led by the same President who delivered a medical miracle with Project Warp Speed — deserves a leader who is willing to acknowledge without qualification the efficacy of life-saving vaccines and who can demonstrate an understanding of basic elements of the U.S. healthcare system,” McConnell said. “Mr. Kennedy failed to prove he is the best possible person to lead America’s largest health agency

[thehill](https://thehill.com/policy/healthcare/5143321-mcconnell-rfk-jr-hhs-vaccines-anti-vaxx/)
