---
title: "Shapiro, Beshear join fight over Trump’s federal funding freeze"
date: "2025-02-14 01:01:22"
summary: "Pennsylvania Gov. Josh Shapiro (D) sued the Trump administration Thursday, saying the federal government is still suspending grants to his state despite court orders in two existing cases. The lawsuit indicates that, as of Thursday, Pennsylvania agencies still have over $1.2 billion in grant funding suspended and another $900 million..."
categories:
  - "thehill"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "thehill"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Pennsylvania Gov. Josh Shapiro (D) sued the Trump administration Thursday, saying the federal government is still suspending grants to his state despite court orders in two existing cases.

[The lawsuit](https://storage.courtlistener.com/recap/gov.uscourts.paed.633426/gov.uscourts.paed.633426.1.0.pdf) indicates that, as of Thursday, Pennsylvania agencies still have over $1.2 billion in grant funding suspended and another $900 million in grants that are marked as requiring further review.

“Governor Josh Shapiro and members of Pennsylvania’s agencies have been working with federal partners and legislators to try to fully restore access to these funds,” the complaint reads.

“Despite that work, and despite two temporary restraining orders requiring federal agencies to restore access to suspended funds, federal agencies continue to deny Pennsylvania agencies funding that they are entitled to receive,” it continues.

[Two judges have](https://thehill.com/regulation/court-battles/5119651-judge-blocks-trump-federal-funding-freeze/) already [temporarily blocked](https://thehill.com/regulation/court-battles/5111837-trump-federal-aid-freeze-blocked/) the administration from implementing an across-the-board funding freeze. The rulings came in response to lawsuits separately brought by Democratic attorneys general in 22 states and a coalition of private organizations.

Shapiro’s challenge, filed in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, now adds a third lawsuit to the mix, part of roughly 70 legal challenges to major Trump administration actions since the inauguration.

Shapiro is one of two governors who joined the funding freeze fight Thursday. Earlier in the day, Kentucky Gov. Andy Beshear (D) joined the existing lawsuit from the attorneys general.

Neither Kentucky nor Pennsylvania had previously gotten involved, as both states have Republican attorneys general.

“Over two weeks ago, the Trump Administration issued a directive freezing federal dollars that were legally appropriated by Congress to states,” Shapiro said in a statement.

“That funding is committed to serious needs, like reclaiming abandoned minelands to prevent sinkholes, plugging orphaned and abandoned wells, helping lower consumers’ utility bills, and more,” he continued.

[thehill](https://thehill.com/regulation/court-battles/5143171-shapiro-beshear-trump-funding-freeze/)
