---
title: "House Republican on Hegseth’s Ukraine remark: ‘There are consequences of rewarding the invader’"
date: "2025-02-14 03:46:15"
summary: "Rep. Don Bacon (R-Neb.), a moderate Republican, cautioned against “rewarding the invader” after Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth said returning to pre-2014 border was an “unrealistic objective” for Ukraine. “We should have moral clarity who started this war, who is bombing cities indiscriminately and who our real friend here is,” Bacon..."
categories:
  - "thehill"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "thehill"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Rep. Don Bacon (R-Neb.), a moderate Republican, cautioned against “rewarding the invader” after Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth said returning to pre-2014 border was an “unrealistic objective” for Ukraine.

“We should have moral clarity who started this war, who is bombing cities indiscriminately and who our real friend here is,” Bacon said Wednesday on X, responding to a report about Hegseth’s remarks.

“There are consequences of rewarding the invader even if its leader foolishly led over 700,000 of its citizens to slaughter,” Bacon continued, referring to Russian President Vladimir Putin, who directed an unprovoked invasion of its neighboring country nearly three years ago.

Speaking ahead of a meeting of the U.S.-led Ukraine Defense Contact Group in Brussels on Wednesday, Hegseth, [said](https://thehill.com/policy/defense/5140389-hegseth-nato-membership-ukraine-russia/) it is “unrealistic” to try to return Ukraine’s borders to what they were before 2014 — when Russia annexed Crimea — indicating that the United States will push a negotiation between Kyiv and Moscow to end the war in which Ukraine cedes territory.

“We want, like you, a sovereign and prosperous Ukraine. But we must start by recognizing that returning to Ukraine’s pre-2014 borders is an unrealistic objective,” Hegseth said Wednesday. “Chasing this illusionary goal will only prolong the war and cause more suffering.”

Restoring Crimea as Ukrainian territory has not been a demand from Kyiv’s officials for peace talks, with Ukrainians instead fearful that any Trump-involved negotiations would force them to give up land taken by Moscow since the war began in February 2022.

Hegseth also addressed the possibility of Ukraine joining NATO after the war, saying, “The United States does not believe that NATO membership for Ukraine is a realistic outcome of a negotiated settlement.”

Hegseth’s comments raised concern among some critics, who said the statements could reduce Ukraine’s leverage as the Trump administration seeks to negotiate an end to the war. President Trump brushed off a question about whether that was the case, in speaking to reporters Wednesday.

Trump talked [to both](https://thehill.com/homenews/administration/5134714-trump-urkraine-war-talks/) Putin and Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky on Wednesday, in [conversations in which he](https://thehill.com/homenews/administration/5141716-trump-ukraine-war-negotiations/) emphasized the need for an end to the nearly three-year war in Eastern Europe.

“No one wants peace more than Ukraine,” Zelensky wrote after his call with Trump. “Together with the U.S., we are charting our next steps to stop Russian aggression and ensure a lasting, reliable peace. As President Trump said, let’s get it done.”

Putin and Trump are [expected to meet](https://thehill.com/homenews/administration/5141580-trump-putin-meet-saudi-arabia/) in Saudi Arabia at some point, but a timeline has not been released.

Vice President Vance is expected to [meet with Zelensky](https://thehill.com/policy/international/5138435-vance-bessent-zelensky-ukraine-russia-war/) this week during a trip to Europe for the Munich Security Conference. Treasury Secretary Scott Bessent was also dispatched to Ukraine to meet with Zelensky as the U.S. [pursues a deal](https://apnews.com/article/russia-ukraine-war-rare-earth-elements-trump-6a4a95d4370a2e46a81ce4a3a352bf8f) for more access to Ukraine’s critical minerals.

[thehill](https://thehill.com/homenews/house/5143662-trump-ukraine-russia-talks-don-bacon/)
