---
title: "Startup Battlefield 200: The competition starts on the waitlist"
date: "2025-02-14 00:01:19"
summary: "Is your pre-Series A startup solving big problems with game-changing potential? Do you have the drive to compete against the world’s top early-stage startups? Or know a founder whose vision deserves to be seen? TechCrunch’s Startup Battlefield 200 is where the most innovative early-stage startups battle it out in front..."
categories:
  - "techcrunch"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "techcrunch"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Is your pre-Series A startup solving big problems with game-changing potential? Do you have the drive to compete against the world’s top early-stage startups? Or know a founder whose vision deserves to be seen?

[**TechCrunch’s Startup Battlefield 200**](https://techcrunch.com/events/tc-disrupt-2025/startup-battlefield/) is where the most innovative early-stage startups battle it out in front of world-renowned VC judges in a high-stakes pitch competition. With over 1,500 alumni like Trello, Mint, Dropbox, Discord, and Getaround, this is the platform to showcase groundbreaking ideas, happening from October 27-29 at Disrupt 2025 in San Francisco.

The startup battle starts before applications even open. Add your startup (or refer one) to [**the waitlist**](https://techcrunch.com/events/tc-disrupt-2025/startup-battlefield/) and be at the front of the line when it’s time to apply.

Startup Battlefield benefits
----------------------------

Startup Battlefield isn’t just a one-time opportunity—our alumni still benefit from it today. Check out the [**Startup Battlefield 200** **page**](https://techcrunch.com/events/tc-disrupt-2025/startup-battlefield/) to see how it can help your startup, explore key perks, and get your questions answered.

* Gain exposure on a global stage
* Get feedback from the biggest investors in tech
* No cost to participate—just pure competition
* A chance to win $100,000 in equity-free funding

* Direct access to top investors and the biggest names in tech media
* Exhibit table (all 3 days at Disrupt 2025)
* 4 complimentary tickets
* Branding/listing in the Disrupt event app
* 2-minute fast-pitch on the Showcase Stage in the Expo Hall
* Invites to exclusive networking events
* Access to masterclass sessions

Begin the startup battle today
------------------------------

In a competition this big, every second counts. Add your startup—or refer one—to the [**Startup Battlefield 200 waitlist**](https://techcrunch.com/events/tc-disrupt-2025/startup-battlefield/) and get notified the moment applications go live. Apply early, stay ahead, and take your shot at startup glory! [**Waitlist here.**](https://techcrunch.com/events/tc-disrupt-2025/startup-battlefield/)

[techcrunch](https://techcrunch.com/2025/02/13/startup-battlefield-200-the-competition-starts-on-the-waitlist/)
