---
title: "EU looks to the private sector to help fund ‘AI Gigafactories’, eyeing the frontier AI race"
date: "2025-02-11 17:26:02"
summary: "The European Union is courting the private sector as it looks to step up compute capacity for training large AI models. Giving a speech at the AI Action Summit in Paris on Monday, the EU’s president, Ursula von der Leyen, talked up the potential of homegrown AI startups but said..."
categories:
  - "techcrunch"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "techcrunch"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The European Union is courting the private sector as it looks to step up compute capacity for training large AI models.

Giving [a speech](https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/speech_25_463) at the [AI Action Summit](https://techcrunch.com/tag/france-ai-action-summit/) in Paris on Monday, the EU’s president, Ursula von der Leyen, talked up the potential of homegrown AI startups but said the region’s developers must have access to powerful enough infrastructure to enable them to scale their innovations to fulfil the potential offered by the technology — so the bloc is looking at changing its model for supporting AI infrastructure.

The current high-level push to set up talent and computing hubs that [leverage the bloc’s existing supercomputing infrastructure](https://techcrunch.com/2024/01/24/eu-supercomputers-for-ai-2/), which the EU brands as “AI factories”, are not enough, she suggested — saying so-called “AI Gigafactories” are needed to train “very large models”.

Building that “next level” of AI infrastructure will require private sector capital, she also said.

“Our start-ups need resources to scale up and we are far from widespread adoption of AI in our economy and society. That is why we are moving to the next level. We want to expand our model of open cooperation to be able to host frontier innovation in AI,” von der Leyen said.

“As AI requires massive computational capacity, the next step will be to launch AI Gigafactories. Very large data and computing infrastructures to train very large models. Similar projects have also been announced in the US, by leading AI players. But with our European Gigafactories, computational power won’t be a monopoly of a few. It will be a service accessible to all,” she added.

In the eve of the AI Action Summit opening on Monday, the French president unveiled [a private sector AI investment package totalling around $112 billion](https://techcrunch.com/2025/02/10/macron-unveils-a-112b-ai-investment-package-as-frances-answer-to-stargate/) in the EU Member State. However, back [in January](https://techcrunch.com/2025/01/21/openai-teams-up-with-softbank-and-oracle-on-50b-data-center-project/), the U.S.-based Stargate project pledged to commit up to $500 billion over four years to build out data center infrastructure with the aim of cementing U.S. leadership in AI. So the EU is clearly feeling the pressure to respond to the AI compute race as a bloc.

“For AI, we need the private sector to be fully involved in our gigafactories. And we need more capital to make it happen,” added von der Leyen, saying the topic would be discussed at a closed door plenary meetingat the summit today.

Switching briefly into sales pitch mode, she implied that Europe could attract capital for the next phase of AI infrastructure by merit of its tendency to take a collaborative, rather than competitive, approach to IP development — focused on pooling and sharing knowledge across Member States for public good.

“I want to emphasise our approach to give researchers and startups a unique opportunity to access top-notch computing infrastructure. It will allow industries to cooperate and federate their data,” she said, suggesting: “It will — for example — allow hospitals to safely train models based on images and genomic data they own. It will allow unprecedented advances in basic science and climate modelling.”

The EU’s planned AI gigafactories will “be open for the best talents,” she argued.

*[Read our full coverage](https://techcrunch.com/tag/france-ai-action-summit/) of the Artificial Intelligence Action Summit in Paris.*

[techcrunch](https://techcrunch.com/2025/02/11/eu-looks-to-the-private-sector-to-help-fund-ai-gigafactories-eyeing-the-frontier-ai-race/)
