---
title: "Instagram is introducing teen accounts with new safety features in India"
date: "2025-02-11 17:45:59"
summary: "Instagram said Tuesday that the platform is introducing its teen accounts feature, which has extra protective measures for safety for users in India, one of its biggest markets with over 350 million users. The company introduced Teen Accounts last year in The U.S., U.K, Canada, and Australia. Meta migrated accounts..."
categories:
  - "techcrunch"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "techcrunch"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Instagram said Tuesday that the platform is introducing its teen accounts feature, which has extra protective measures for safety for users in India, one of its biggest markets with over 350 million users.

The company introduced [Teen Accounts last year in The U.S., U.K, Canada, and Australia](https://techcrunch.com/2024/09/17/instagram-tightens-restrictions-on-teen-accounts-putting-parents-in-control/). Meta migrated accounts of Instagram users who are under the age of 16. These teen accounts are private accounts by default and have messaging restrictions, content controls, interaction limits, time limit reminders, and sleep mode.

“At Meta, creating a safer and more responsible digital environment is a top priority. With the expansion of Instagram Teen Accounts to India, we are strengthening protections, enhancing content controls, and empowering parents while ensuring a safer experience for teens,” Natasha Jog, Director of Public Policy India at Instagram, said in a blog post.

The teen account setup means that users under 16 will need the permission of parents or guardians to change some settings in their accounts. Plus, parents of users over 16 will also have an option to turn on the supervision of the teen’s account.

Parents can see who their children are interacting with, but they can’t see the message. They can also set daily usage limits and block the app during specific hours.

*The story is developing…*

[techcrunch](https://techcrunch.com/2025/02/11/instagram-is-introducing-teen-accounts-with-new-safety-features-in-india/)
