---
title: "Google Gemini now brings receipts to your AI chats"
date: "2025-02-14 06:21:53"
summary: "Google’s Gemini AI chatbot can now tailor answers based on the contents of previous conversations, the company announced in a blog post on Thursday. Gemini can summarize a previous conversation you’ve had with it, or recall info you shared in another conversation thread. This means you won’t have to repeat..."
categories:
  - "techcrunch"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "techcrunch"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Google’s Gemini AI chatbot can now tailor answers based on the contents of previous conversations, the company announced in a [blog post](https://blog.google/feed/gemini-referencing-past-chats/) on Thursday. Gemini can summarize a previous conversation you’ve had with it, or recall info you shared in another conversation thread.

This means you won’t have to repeat information you’ve already shared with Gemini or comb through old threads for additional info.

Gemini’s ability to recall conversations is rolling out today to English-speaking subscribers of Google’s $20-a-month AI chatbot subscription, Google One AI Premium. In the coming weeks, Google says the recall feature will roll out additional languages and for users with enterprise accounts.

The feature’s aim is to make Gemini more fluid and personal — but not every user will be thrilled with the notion of the platform storing old information.

To address privacy concerns, Google says it’s allowing users to review, delete, or decide how long it will keep your chat history. Users can turn off the recall feature altogether by going to the “My Activity” page in Gemini. Google also notes that it never trains AI models based on user conversation histories.

That said, several AI chatbot providers have been experimenting with memory and recall.

OpenAI CEO Sam Altman has [previously noted](https://x.com/sama/status/1873816979590787110) that improved memory is among ChatGPT’s most requested features.

[Google](https://techcrunch.com/2024/11/19/googles-gemini-chatbot-now-has-memory/) and [OpenAI](https://techcrunch.com/2024/02/13/chatgpt-will-now-remember-and-forget-things-you-tell-it-to/) have both enabled more general “memory” features for their AI chatbots in the past year. These allow ChatGPT and Gemini to remember details about you, such as how you like to be addressed, your food preferences, or that you prefer riding a bike to driving a car.

However, these existing memory features don’t remember and recall your full chat history by default.

*TechCrunch has an AI-focused newsletter! [Sign up here](https://techcrunch.com/newsletters/) to get it in your inbox every Wednesday.*

[techcrunch](https://techcrunch.com/2025/02/13/google-gemini-now-brings-receipts-to-your-ai-chats/)
