---
title: "Incyte provides first guidance for JAK cream Opzelura"
date: "2025-02-11 03:35:28"
summary: "Incyte’s ruxolitinib franchise, made up of blockbuster JAK inhibitor Jakafi and its topical counterpart Opzelura, have been the company’s driving focus for years. Now with Jakafi approaching a 2028 patent cliff, Opzelura is gaining momentum as several expansion opportunities take shape. The 2021-approved Opzelura grew sales by 50% during 2024,..."
categories:
  - "fiercepharma"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "fiercepharma"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Incyte’s ruxolitinib franchise, made up of blockbuster JAK inhibitor Jakafi and its topical counterpart Opzelura, have been the company’s driving focus for years. Now with Jakafi approaching a 2028 patent cliff, Opzelura is gaining momentum as several expansion opportunities take shape.

The 2021-approved Opzelura grew sales by 50% during 2024, reaching $508 million on the back of its two approved indications in atopic dermatitis and vitiligo. Included in the fourth quarter’s $162 million revenue haul is $24 million from sales outside of the U.S., where Opzelura’s European launch is seeing positive momentum, Incyte said on its earnings [presentation](https://investor.incyte.com/static-files/ce596cfa-d688-41a0-b9b8-76a0378c9195) Monday.

Opzelura remains the only marketed topical JAK inhibitor, although Leo Pharma’s delgocitinib is vying for a nod in chronic hand eczema. Besides studies in prurigo nodularis and mild to moderate hidradenitis suppurativa, Incyte’s next move for Opzelura is an expected approval in pediatric atopic dermatitis in the second half of this year.

### Related



[Incyte's JAK cream Opzelura proves its worth in treating hidradenitis suppurativa in midstage study](/pharma/incytes-jak-cream-opzelura-proves-its-worth-treating-hidradenitis-suppurativa-phase-2-study)



An expansion into the 2 to 11 years old age group would add two million to three million pediatric patients into the drug’s clutches, representing 10% to 15% of the total atopic dermatitis patient population at its peak, CEO Hervé Hoppenot said on a conference call Monday. As it stands, the “vast majority” of those patients’ disease remains uncontrolled, according to Hoppenot, leaving a significant market opportunity for Opzelura.

Beyond that, the company is hopeful that the phase 3 data for its study of Opzelura in prurigo nodularis, expected to drop over the first half of this year, will meet the bar set by its successful phase 2 [trial](https://investor.incyte.com/news-releases/news-release-details/incyte-announces-new-data-phase-2-study-evaluating-ruxolitinib).

In the phase 2, Opzelura helped patients achieve a significantly greater reduction in the amount of abscess and inflammatory nodules than those who used the vehicle control. If the phase 3 results are “anywhere near” what the phase 2 proved, the drug could be an important offering for patients who may have less severe disease than those that currently require a systemic medicine, R&D head Pablo Cagnoni explained on the call.

With the expansions taking shape, Incyte on Monday delivered its first revenue guidance expectations for Opzelura since its 2021 launch, forecasting 2025 sales of $630 million to $670 million. The range comes in slightly below current consensus of $678 million, according to William Blair. The sales estimates are backed by demand growth in its two approved indications, plus the potential launch in the pediatric AD population, CFO Christiana Stamoulis said.

While the company is seeing an increase in the average number of patients that are sticking to their Opzelura treatment, it’s still an “area that is evolving” as Incyte continues to educate patients on how best to use the product, according to Stamoulis.

Meanwhile, Jakafi continues to pick up the bulk of sales at Incyte and collected $773 million in fourth-quarter revenue, with polycythemia vera patients currently making up 35% of all Jakafi takers, Hoppenot mentioned.


### Related



[JPM25: Incyte plans to turn 'a lot of cards' in 2025 as CEO eyes 2 types of deals](/pharma/incyte-ceo-turn-lot-cards-2025-eyes-2-types-deals)



The company has a second chance to help Jakafi live on in a once-daily extended-release formulation. Incyte said the new formulation has met the bioequivalence criteria set by the FDA, and it plans to submit to the FDA by the end of the year after it wraps up the stability studies in hopes of a 2026 launch. The FDA had previously [rejected](https://www.fiercepharma.com/pharma/rejection-slow-release-jakafi-fda-sends-ripple-effect-across-incytes-pipeline-analyst) the contender, dealing a blow to Incyte's proposed fixed-dose combinations of Jakafi with other once-daily novel agents.

Elsewhere, Incyte is looking at a packed year with 18 key milestones expected to come, including four new product launches, three phase 3 study initiations, four pivotal readouts and seven proof of concept readouts.

Along with the launch of newly approved chronic graft-versus-host disease drug Niktimvo, as well as potential expansions for Opzelura, lymphoma med Monjuvi and PD-1 inhibitor Zynyz, the company is gearing up for a key readout for its phase 3 povorcitinib asset in hidradenitis suppurativa during the first half of this year. Incyte sees “best-in-class efficacy” for povorcitinib, which is also being assessed in vitiligo and prurigo nodularis.

[fiercepharma](https://www.fiercepharma.com/pharma/incytes-jak-cream-opzelura-picks-steam-company-works-revive-jakafi-xr-dreams)
