---
title: "Avalere refocuses on ensuring access to care under new CEO"
date: "2025-02-06 01:10:33"
summary: "Avalere Health has reset both its executive team and mission. Weeks after naming Amar Urhekar as its new CEO, the biopharma commercialization partner has aligned its teams behind a new overarching mission: “Every Patient Possible,” with the goal of ensuring “every patient is identified, supported, treated and cared for,” according..."
categories:
  - "fiercepharma"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "fiercepharma"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Avalere Health has reset both its executive team and mission. Weeks after naming Amar Urhekar as its new CEO, the biopharma commercialization partner has aligned its teams behind a new overarching mission: “Every Patient Possible,” with the goal of ensuring “every patient is identified, supported, treated and cared for,” according to a Wednesday announcement.

The company started taking its current form when U.K. agency Fishawack Health bought U.S. consulting and advisory firm Avalere in 2022. Urhekar began working as chief operating officer the next year, giving him a key role in efforts to refocus the combined company around its advisory, medical and marketing capabilities. The reorganization underpins Avalere’s new focus on supporting access to healthcare.

“Too often, people are stuck waiting for the treatment and care they deserve,” Urhekar said in a statement. “We have the talent and conviction across the product lifecycle to drive real change for patients everywhere. We’re choosing context over complexity, action over convention and the many over the few.”

The company’s revamped mission reflects its observation that many people are unable to benefit from healthcare they need. Scientific and technological innovations have improved outcomes for those individuals who can access them but done little to enhance the lives of people who are cut off from the new interventions.


### Related



[Avalere promotes Amar Urhekar, the architect of its new model, to CEO](/marketing/avalere-promotes-urhekar-architect-its-new-model-ceo)



Avalere outlined initiatives related to its commitment. For one, the company has developed a strategic framework dubbed SenseMaking, which incorporates AI- and data-driven tools and aims to “unite its experts in a single approach that uncovers health disparities and drives strategies and solutions that support every person.” Avalere said this approach will allow it to help biopharma partners, for example, identify barriers to drug access.

The company has also recently partnered with the University of North Carolina’s Student Teams Achieving Results, or STAR, program to look into new ways to support people living in areas without access to needed healthcare. The collaboration is part of a push to investigate rural health issues that Avalere said affect 30 million people in North America alone.

[fiercepharma](https://www.fiercepharma.com/marketing/avalere-refocuses-ensuring-access-care-under-new-ceo)
