---
title: "Market Talk Roundup: Latest on U.S. Politics"
date: "2025-02-10 17:03:00"
summary: "The latest Market Talks covering U.S. politics. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.0403 ET - Sterling could rise against the euro if President Trump follows through on his threat for EU tariffs, ING's Chris Turner says in a note. The market expects the EU has more to..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The latest Market Talks covering U.S. politics. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.

0403 ET - Sterling could rise against the euro if President Trump follows through on his threat for EU tariffs, ING's Chris Turner says in a note. The market expects the EU has more to lose than the U.K. on tariffs, he says. "We cannot rule out another drop in EUR/GBP to the 0.8250 area should tariffs hit Europe in the early part of this week." Against the dollar, however, sterling could fall towards the lower end of a 1.2250-1.2500 trading range. A speech from Bank of England official Catherine Mann on Tuesday and U.K. economic growth data Thursday could signal more interest-rate cuts. EUR/GBP trades flat at 0.8322 but GBP/USD rises 0.2% to 1.2397. (renae.dyer@wsj.com)

0339 ET - U.S. President Trump's plans for new tariffs could introduce some volatility into bond markets, ING's rates strategists say in a note. "New tariffs threats, this time for metals, could bring some volatility," they say. Moves in bonds shouldn't be too large, however, as the news is unlikely to cause "a structural move higher or lower for rates." Trump said he plans to impose 25% tariffs Monday on imports of steel and aluminum. He also plans to make an announcement about reciprocal tariffs on Tuesday or Wednesday. The 10-year Bund yield falls 1 basis point to 2.370%, according to Tradeweb. (emese.bartha@wsj.com)

0338 ET - Bitcoin rises after initially falling in reaction to President Trump's announcement about imposing 25% tariffs on all steel and aluminium imports from Monday. Trump also said he would announce reciprocal tariffs on countries that impose levies on U.S. exports later in the week. Bitcoin's reaction to the news indicates markets are more resilient to Trump's tariff threats, "or at least have got used to trading through them," XTB's Kathleen Brooks says in a note. Bitcoin rises 1.7% to $97,627, according to LSEG. (renae.dyer@wsj.com)

0326 ET - The Australian dollar rises after data showed China's consumer inflation accelerated in January, boosted by prices of food and services ahead of the Lunar New Year holiday. The data help the commodity-linked currency to recover after falling earlier on U.S. President Trump's plans for 25% tariffs on imports of steel and aluminum, Swissquote Bank analyst Ipek Ozkardeskaya says in a note. "The swift recovery in the Australian dollar was certainly due to the encouraging Chinese data that showed that inflation advanced to the highest level in five months." The Australian dollar rises 0.4% to $0.6268, having earlier fallen to a 6-day low of $0.6238, FactSet data show. (jessica.fleetham@wsj.com)

0257 ET - The dollar rises after President Trump said he would on Monday impose 25% tariffs on all steel and aluminum imports. These measures could be more prolonged than the tariffs recently imposed--then postponed--on Canada and Mexico, Pepperstone strategist Michael Brown says in a note. That means there's an increased risk of higher inflation and weaker economic growth. The dollar benefits from safe-haven demand and the Federal Reserve's cautious stance on interest rate cuts. Furthermore, the U.S. economy should prove more resilient than peers. "That said, anything close to, or above, 110.00 in the DXY dollar index seems a bit far-fetched for now," Brown says. The DXY rises 0.2% to 108.287. (renae.dyer@wsj.com)

0056 ET - Trump's tariff is likely to be a long-term theme, says Saxo Markets chief investment strategist Charu Chanana in a commentary. Tariffs are being used not just to tax imports but as tools for national security, economic leverage, and revenue generation, indicating a shift towards long-term economic policy rather than short-term trade disputes, the analyst says. "For investors, that means positioning for a world where protectionism is the norm, not the exception," she writes. It is likely to have an impact on U.S. domestic manufacturing and industrial revival, energy and resource independence, defense and cyber security expansion, and inflation, the analyst notes. (tracy.qu@wsj.com)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250210002080:0/)
