---
title: "Basic Materials Roundup: Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-10 17:20:00"
summary: "The latest Market Talks covering Basic Materials. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires at 4:20 ET, 12:20 ET and 16:50 ET.0648 GMT - Japan's Nikkei Stock Average closed flat at 38801.17, as gains in chemical and select electronics stocks helped offset losses in trading houses. Murata Manufacturing rose 5.0%, while..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The latest Market Talks covering Basic Materials. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires at 4:20 ET, 12:20 ET and 16:50 ET.

0648 GMT - Japan's Nikkei Stock Average closed flat at 38801.17, as gains in chemical and select electronics stocks helped offset losses in trading houses. Murata Manufacturing rose 5.0%, while Mitsui & Co. dropped 1.8%. Mitsubishi Chemical Group gained 2.0% after announcing its plan to sell its drug unit for $3.37 billion. The broader market index, Topix, fell 0.2% to 2733.01. Investors were focused on President Trump's tariff plans as well as domestic earnings. The 10-year Japanese government bond yield rose 1.5 basis points to 1.315%. USD/JPY is at 151.81, compared with 151.41 late Friday in New York. (kosaku.narioka@wsj.com; @kosakunarioka)

0250 GMT - Iron ore prices are lower in early Asian trading. U.S. President Trump announced plans to impose 25% tariffs on imports of steel and aluminum, a move which could hurt the demand of the black metal. However, iron ore prices may still find some near-term support, thanks to seasonal strong demand and supply, according to Nanhua Futures analysts in a commentary. Investors are likely to focus on changes on demand, as mainland China gradually returns to work after a week-long Lunar New Year holiday, they add. The most-traded iron ore contract on the Dalian Commodity Exchange is down 0.3% at CNY809.0/ton. (tracy.qu@wsj.com)

0230 GMT - While Incitec Pivot's latest trading update is slightly negative for FY25 earnings, the market should largely look through it, RBC Capital Markets analysts say in a note. "The key investment and valuation drivers remain on track," they say. Those drivers are the Dyno Nobel transformation measures, targeting roughly A$300 million EBIT uplift, and the FY25 timing of its planned fertilizers separation, they say. RBC keeps an outperform rating and A$3.90 target. Incitec is down 0.5% at A$2.955/share. (rhiannon.hoyle@wsj.com; @RhiannonHoyle)

0103 GMT - Australia's BlueScope Steel is tipped to be a winner from President Trump's planned 25% tariffs on U.S. imports of steel and aluminum. The stock rises 2.8% to A$22.11/share, as the broader Australian market trades in the red. The U.S. is BlueScope's top region for growth. The steelmaker, which runs the North Star mini-mill in Ohio, is working to boost volumes there by another 10% following the completion of an expansion that increased output by nearly 50%. Trump says he plans to announce the 25% tariffs Monday. U.S. tariffs could help offset tough steel-market conditions for BlueScope, with spreads in Asia especially soft. BlueScope's stock hit A$22.365 earlier in Sydney, its highest since Dec. 2. (rhiannon.hoyle@wsj.com; @RhiannonHoyle)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250210002188:0/)
