---
title: "ICE Canola Midday: Building on the Rally"
date: "2025-02-12 00:32:00"
summary: "WINNIPEG, Manitoba--Intercontinental Exchange canola futures continued higher late Tuesday morning, in an attempt to extend their rally to a fourth consecutive session.Support for the Canadian oilseed came from a tightening supply situation and spillover from comparable oils.In Chicago, soybeans and soyoil swung upward while soymeal was mixed. There were gains..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

WINNIPEG, Manitoba--Intercontinental Exchange canola futures continued higher late Tuesday morning, in an attempt to extend their rally to a fourth consecutive session.

Support for the Canadian oilseed came from a tightening supply situation and spillover from comparable oils.

In Chicago, soybeans and soyoil swung upward while soymeal was mixed. There were gains in European rapeseed, but the Malaysian palm oil market remained closed for a holiday. Moderate increases in crude oil were underpinning the vegetable oils.

The United States Department of Agriculture is set to release its February supply and demand report at noon EST. Any changes to their soybean estimates, foreign or domestic, would influence canola.

Also, the USDA will issue its world oilseed report. In January, the department maintained its estimate for 2024/25 canola production in Canada at 18.80 million tonnes, while Statistics Canada placed its output at 17.85 million.

The Canadian dollar was slightly higher at mid-session Tuesday, with the loonie bumping up to 69.90 U.S. cents compared to Monday's close of 69.82.

Approximately 40,000 canola contracts were traded as of 11:23 am EST, with prices in Canadian dollars per metric tonne:

```
   
           Price      Change   
Mar       664.70     up 2.90   
May       674.70     up 3.00   
Jul       678.60     up 2.30   
Nov       654.30     up 2.80   
 
```

Source: Commodity News Service Canada, news@marketsfarm.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250211007442:0/)
