---
title: "Global Equities Roundup: Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-13 03:42:00"
summary: "The latest Market Talks covering Equities. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.1441 ET - Colonel's Island Terminal in Brunswick, Georgia, was the busiest U.S. port for cars and heavy equipment last year, Georgia Ports Authority says. The facility handled over 901,000 units of autos and heavy equipment..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The latest Market Talks covering Equities. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.

1441 ET - Colonel's Island Terminal in Brunswick, Georgia, was the busiest U.S. port for cars and heavy equipment last year, Georgia Ports Authority says. The facility handled over 901,000 units of autos and heavy equipment in 2024, in the wake of a series of improvements which included new warehousing and processing space. Brunswick was also the top port for roll-on/roll-off exports in 2024, moving 600,000 tons, the Authority says. Overall, the facility handled over 2 million tons of roll-on-roll-off cargo last year, according to the Authority. (stephen.nakrosis@wsj.com)

1436 ET - Chefs' Warehouse CEO Christopher Pappas says on a call with analysts that higher egg prices and looming tariffs aren't keeping him up at night. The food distributor has more than 4,000 suppliers, and "a tremendous amount of our products are domestic," he says. The largest hurdle the company faces is rising egg prices, but this surge shouldn't have an outsized effect on operations: "Even if they're up 50 cents an egg, how much of that goes into a recipe to our average customer, who's charging $20, $30, $40 for an entree?" Pappas says. On tariffs, Chefs' could get hit with higher costs for fruits and vegetables from Mexico, but Pappas again downplays the effect. "All of these are $20 boxes, so you're talking about a few bucks a case." Chefs' Warehouse surges 12% on better-than-expected 4Q earnings. (connor.hart@wsj.com)

1430 ET - Masco will look to bolster its track record of managing tariffs. The owner of Behr paint, Delta faucets and other home products issued guidance for 2025 and says it includes the impact from recently enacted tariffs on China. The company notes its estimates are net of mitigation actions and do not include the impacts from any potential future tariffs. Jefferies analysts say pricing is one of the main levers Masco will use to offset tariff impact, though they expect a mismatch between price and costs in 1H25 before turning positive in 2H25 as negotiations play out. The analysts also note that the company has limited exposure to Canada, while Mexico is a significant piece of its spa business. CEO Keith Allman on an earnings call said Masco can move products from Mexico to its manufacturing hub in Southern California. Masco is off 2.2% to $76.90. (denny.jacob@wsj.com; @pennedbyden)

1413 ET - DoorDash is higher after 4Q revenue and orders beat Wall Street estimates, and UBS says the food delivery company should deliver incremental adjusted Ebitda dollars for 2025 to 2027 at least at the levels seen in 2024 of greater than $700M. Still, the analysts say in a research note that there is a lingering unanswered question around the timing of adjusted Ebitda flowthrough. "We continue to prefer Uber given clearer adjusted Ebitda targets through 2026, ongoing platform synergies, and potential for Waymo partnership expansion in 2025," the analysts add. UBS raises its target price to $204 from $200. DoorDash rises 2.8% to $198.52. (sabela.ojea@wsj.com; @sabelaojeaguix)

1345 ET - UBS analysts are optimistic that Walmart's 4Q results, expected next week, will live up to investors' high expectations. The analysts forecast a better-than-expected holiday season, as well as a current-year outlook largely in-line with Wall Street views, setting the retailer up for continued raises during the year, according to a research note. They also expect higher marketing spend this year, which "would be a prudent way to press its advantages and draw in more customers." The analysts say Walmart's stock can continue to climb, citing the company's relative consistency amid volatile retail trends, as well as current investment trends. Walmart is up 14% year-to-date and up 82% in the past 12 months.(connor.hart@wsj.com)

1337 ET - The Super Bowl seemed to be a good day for online sports betting companies, with Flutter Entertainment's Fanduel reporting a 19% increase in bets to 16.6 million, and BetMGM calling it "one of the best single game results in company history," BofA Securities analysts say in a research note. The ability to grow double-digits during the biggest event of the year could help ease concerns of slowing handle, or the amount of money wagered by bettors, the analysts say. DraftKings led active user share on Sunday at 23%, followed by FanDuel at 17%, while Bet365, PrizePicks and ESPN Bet each had 10% share, BofA says. Still, the analysts don't expect DraftKings to raise guidance, as it might face $100 million of annualized headwinds from higher taxes in Maryland and Ohio, together with launch costs in Missouri. (sabela.ojea@wsj.com; @sabelaojeaguix)

1325 ET - High mortgage rates, rising to 7.04% in January compared with mid-6% last year, are impacting buyers more than sellers, Zillow says. Home values, up 44% since pre-pandemic and 2.6% year-over- year, make affordability tough, with pending sales down 3.6%. Buyers face challenges, but many listings see price cuts. Sellers, less affected by rates, are listing more, with new listings up 12% year over year, driven by equity gains and life events like job changes or family growth. Western markets like Portland, Seattle, Denver, and San Francisco are seeing the fastest listing growth. Despite buyer struggles, 25% of homes sold in December exceeded asking price, up from 19% pre-pandemic, showing some sellers still benefit in this market. (chris.wack@wsj.com)

1319 ET - UBS says Lyft's worse-than-expected 4Q gross bookings and margin trajectory reinforces its below-consensus adjusted Ebitda forecasts for 2025 to 2027. The analysts also say in a research note that the upcoming loss of the Delta Air Lines partnership, that linked Delta SkyMiles and Lyft accounts, will likely be a headwind that makes their medium-term forecasts uncertain. Add to that the threat of robotaxis and the analysts say they have limited visibility into near-term trading multiple expansion. "We think Lyft's competing initiative will remain nascent through 2026," the analysts say. UBS cuts its target price to $15 from $16. Lyft falls 4% to $13.82. (sabela.ojea@wsj.com; @sabelaojeaguix)

1252 ET - Coca-Cola imports aluminium from Canada for its U.S. soda cans, though higher prices for the metal could scramble this operation, CEO James Quincey says on a call with analysts. The soda company wants to limit price hikes for consumers in order to preserve demand, which could lead to the company considering new bottling materials: "So for example, if aluminum cans become more expensive, we can put more emphasis on PET bottles," he says. This adaptability should ensure tariffs don't drag volumes lower in 2025. "I think we control enough variables that we can adapt and mitigate our way through what is happening, because it's a combination of hedging, which we use on the key materials," Quincey says. (connor.hart@wsj.com)

1251 ET - Home listings are selling for less than asking price and taking longer to sell, according to Redfin. In January, the typical U.S. home was selling for 1.8% below asking, the largest discount in nearly two years, and taking 56 days to go under contract, the longest in almost five years. About 56% of listings remain on the market for at least 60 days, similar to last year but down from 61% last month, the highest in five years. High home prices--up 4% year over year--and elevated mortgage rates have pushed buyer payments near record highs, slowing the market. Political and economic uncertainty are also deterring buyers. But this slow market gives buyers more room to negotiate on price and terms, offering some relief amid high costs and low inventory. (chris.wack@wsj.com)

1206 ET - Base metal prices are mixed, with LME three-month copper up 1.1% at $9,459 a metric ton and LME three-month aluminum down 0.6% at $2,623.50 a ton. President Trump's planned 25% tariffs on all steel and aluminum products have already widened the Midwest premium U.S. buyers have to pay over LME prices. The latest LME commitment of traders report shows investors increased their net bullish position in copper by 5,224 lots for a sixth consecutive week to 73,763 lots for the week ended Feb. 7--the highest net long position since the beginning of November, ING analysts say in a note. In aluminum, speculators raised net bullish bets by 2,109 lots to 119,588 lots over the last reporting week. This was the highest bullish bet since mid-November, ING adds. (joseph.hoppe@wsj.com)

1158 ET - Canada Prime Minister Justin Trudeau says he had a short encounter with Vice President JD Vance about the negative fallout from a 25% tariff on steel and aluminum from Ohio. Trudeau tells reporters he told Vance — for an AI conference in Paris that the two lawmakers attended — that about C$2.2 billion of Canadian-made steel and aluminum are used by manufacturers in Vance's home state. "He nodded and noted it," Trudeau says, noting it was a short exchange. Earlier in the day, Quebec Premier Francois Legault mused that perhaps Canada should slap an export tax on U.S.-bound aluminum should the Trump administration imposes a hefty tariff on the metal. Canadian officials play down talk of export taxes, saying they want to press U.S. officials for a carve out. (paul.vieira@wsj.com, @paulvieira)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250212011505:0/)
