---
title: "Federal Employee 'Buyout' Program Can Proceed, Court Rules — Barrons.com"
date: "2025-02-13 10:47:00"
summary: "By Anita HamiltonA federal judge has ruled that a deferred-resignation plan the Trump administration offered to federal workers can proceed. The government offered the deal to the more than two million-person federal civilian workforce as part of its cost-cutting initiatives headed up by Tesla CEO Elon Musk.In issuing his ruling,..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Anita Hamilton

A federal judge has ruled that a deferred-resignation plan the Trump administration offered to federal workers can proceed. The government offered the deal to the more than two million-person federal civilian workforce as part of its cost-cutting initiatives headed up by Tesla CEO Elon Musk.

In issuing his ruling, Judge George A. O'Toole Jr. wrote that the labor unions that brought the suit to stop the program lacked standing to challenge the directive because they aren't directly impacted by it and are instead "challenging a policy that affects others, specifically executive branch employees." He added that "aggrieved employees can bring claims through the administrative process."

O'Toole Jr., who was nominated in 1995 by President Bill Clinton, issued the ruling Wednesday evening in Massachusetts District Court. He had previously paused the offer's initial Feb. 6 deadline, leaving workers in limbo as to whether the offer was valid.

Following the ruling, the government closed the program, posting a message to the site where it was offered that read, "The Deferred Resignation Program is now closed. Any resignations received after 7:20pm ET, February 12, 2025 will not be accepted."

In a hearing Monday, the unions and administration presented their oral arguments. Lawyers for the administration called the deal a "humane off-ramp" for workers who didn't want to return to the office. Unions claimed it would cause workers irreparable harm and wasn't legal.

"Today's ruling is a setback in the fight for dignity and fairness for public servants. But it's not the end of that fight. AFGE's lawyers are evaluating the decision and assessing next steps," said Everett Kelley, president of one of the unions that had filed suit, the American Federation of Government Employees.

Labor unions are suing over the government's deferred resignation program, which would allow workers to remain on the government payroll with full benefits through Sept. 30 in exchange for not having to return to the office. Employees who accepted the offer would generally be placed on administrative leave by Feb. 28, with the exception of some at the Internal Revenue Service, who would be required to work through May 15 to handle tax season.

The suit claims that the offer is illegal, in part because the government cannot guarantee that workers who accept it will continue to be paid after March 14, the current date through which the government is funded. While Congress is working on a new spending bill, partisan divides combined with Republicans' slim majorities in both houses make it unclear if the bill will pass.

More than 65,000 federal workers have accepted the offer, the Office of Personnel Management told Barron's. Musk's Department of Government Efficiency estimates the cost savings of the resignations at $30 billion. Other government workers have been placed on administrative leave as part of the administration's cost-cutting efforts.

The ruling comes as dozens of lawsuits have been filed against the administration as it moves quickly to reshape federal agencies. Courts have issued temporary pauses to several of Trump's executive actions, such as the freezing of federal grants and ending birthright citizenship. President Donald Trump said Tuesday night that he would comply with court orders, then appeal. Some challenges are expected to go all the way to the Supreme Court.

On Tuesday, the president signed a new executive order directing agencies to "promptly undertake preparations to initiate large-scale reductions in force" and to hire no more than one new employee for every four that depart. No specifics were given for when the changes would happen.

Write to Anita Hamilton at anita.hamilton@barrons.com

This content was created by Barron's, which is operated by Dow Jones & Co. Barron's is published independently from Dow Jones Newswires and The Wall Street Journal.

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250212017147:0/)
