---
title: "Rockwell Automation Shares Rise Following Better-Than-Expected 1Q Report"
date: "2025-02-10 23:42:00"
summary: "By Connor HartShares of Rockwell Automation climbed after the company reported higher-than-expected earnings in its fiscal first quarter, buoyed by improving demand trends.The stock rose 9.7%, to $294.46, in Monday morning trading. Shares, on pace for there largest percent increase since July 2022, are up 4.3% in the past year.Before..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Connor Hart

Shares of Rockwell Automation climbed after the company reported higher-than-expected earnings in its fiscal first quarter, buoyed by improving demand trends.

The stock rose 9.7%, to $294.46, in Monday morning trading. Shares, on pace for there largest percent increase since July 2022, are up 4.3% in the past year.

Before the bell, the industrial-automation company posted net income of $184 million, or $1.61 a share, compared with $215 million, or $1.86 a share, a year earlier.

Adjusted per-share earnings were $1.83, beating the $1.58 that analysts surveyed by FactSet were expecting.

Sales fell 8.4% to $1.88 billion, in line with analyst forecasts, according to FactSet. The company attributed the decrease to unfavorable currency translation and a 7.6% drop in organic sales.

The company's Intelligent Devices unit posted sales of $806 million, down 13% from a year earlier. Its Software & Control division notched sales of $529 million, representing a 12% decrease from last year.

These losses were partially offset by the company's Lifecycle Services segment, where sales grew 5% to $546 million.

Chief Executive Blake Moret said uncertainty surrounding macroeconomic trends and policy is continuing to weigh on companies' capital expenditure plans. Despite this uncertainty, though, he said the company won multi-million dollar strategic orders during the quarter, specifically in the U.S.

"From a demand perspective, we are encouraged by better-than-expected order performance in the quarter with sequential growth across all regions and business segments," Moret said.

For its fiscal 2025, Rockwell backed its adjusted per-share earnings outlook of $8.60 to $9.80, though it lowered the midpoint of its sales forecast to $8.1 billion from $8.2 billion. Analysts polled by FactSet are expecting adjusted earnings of $9.24 a share on revenue of $8.13 billion.

Write to Connor Hart at connor.hart@wsj.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250210006974:0/)
