---
title: "Americans' Eager Holiday Shopping Didn't Bring a Surge in Debt — Barrons.com"
date: "2025-02-14 00:00:00"
summary: "By Megan LeonhardtAmericans' hefty holiday shopping didn't translate to significant increases in overall household debt, but the number of consumers struggling to pay off their credit-card bills remains elevated.Delinquencies, particularly on credit cards, remained at high levels during the fourth quarter of 2024, according to the Federal Reserve Bank of..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Megan Leonhardt

Americans' hefty holiday shopping didn't translate to significant increases in overall household debt, but the number of consumers struggling to pay off their credit-card bills remains elevated.

Delinquencies, particularly on credit cards, remained at high levels during the fourth quarter of 2024, according to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York's Quarterly Report on Household Debt and Credit report, released Thursday. Last quarter, about 7.2% of credit-card accounts shifted into 90 days overdue, referred to as serious delinquency, during the fourth quarter.

That is much higher than before the pandemic and was up from the 6.36% pace reported in the third quarter. About 11.4% of credit-card balance were at least 90 days delinquent in the fourth quarter, the highest rate since 2011.

Still, growth in the number of credit-card delinquencies has leveled off some from the rapid pace in 2023 and most of 2024. New York Fed researchers on Thursday said the credit-card delinquency rate could be characterized as stabilizing.

The elevated rate of delinquencies is an indicator that some households are having trouble paying their bills on time and is worth watching carefully in the coming months. But the overall consumer sector looks solid, particularly in terms of levels of overall debt relative to income and net wealth.

Overall debt levels didn't climb much in the last three months of 2024, despite robust consumer spending around the holidays. Total household debt was $18 trillion in the fourth quarter, an increase of 0.5%, or about $93 billion, from the $17.9 trillion reached in the third quarter, according to the latest data.

Much of the overall increase in household debt was driven by a $45 billion rise in credit-card balances, which reached $1.21 trillion at the end of December. Balances grew at a rate of 7.3% between December 2023 and December 2024.

While the growth in credit-card balances was still well above the average annual growth rates of about 5.8% reported in the five years before the Covid-19 pandemic, last quarter showed some normalization compared with the outsize growth seen over the past couple of years, New York Fed researchers said Thursday.

The number of credit-card accounts grew by nearly 3% last quarter, according to the data. That is the fastest increase since 2007. As of the fourth quarter, there were 617 million credit-card accounts — more than two cards per every U.S. adult. Still, aggregate balances remain well within the overall credit card spending limits.

Typically, there is a larger rise in card balances in the fourth quarter as a result of seasonal spending. If historical trends hold, the current quarter should show a reduction, or at least a smaller increase, the Fed researchers said.

Auto loan balances rose by $11 billion and stood at $1.66 trillion at the end of the year. Like credit cards, auto loan debt rose at a moderate pace last quarter compared with previous periods, though delinquencies also remained elevated. Nearly 3% of auto loans had payments that were more than 90 days overdue as of December.

The researchers, however, found that the quality of auto loans has remained relatively solid. In fact, the median credit score of consumers taking out new vehicle loans has edged up since the end of 2022. And as car prices normalize, the researchers expect that delinquency rates will also stabilize.

Overall, across all credit products, including credit cards, auto loans, mortgages and student loans, about 3.6% of balances were past due in the fourth quarter. About 2% of balances were seriously delinquent, a rate that is relatively unchanged from the third quarter.

Bankruptcy and foreclosures remain exceptionally low and have been muted for some time now, the Fed researchers said.

Write to Megan Leonhardt at megan.leonhardt@barrons.com

This content was created by Barron's, which is operated by Dow Jones & Co. Barron's is published independently from Dow Jones Newswires and The Wall Street Journal.

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250213011508:0/)
