---
title: "EMEA Morning Briefing: Tariffs, Fed Powell's Comments in Focus"
date: "2025-02-11 13:00:00"
summary: "MARKET WRAPSWatch For:France unemployment; trading updates from BP, TUI, UniCredit, Kering, Aker Solutions, Ams-OsramOpening Call:Stock futures were tracking lower, in tandem with Asian stock benchmarks as traders digested Trump's tariffs on steel and aluminum. The dollar strengthened; oil and gold futures also rose.Equities:Stock futures were lower as investors digest President..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

MARKET WRAPS

Watch For:

France unemployment; trading updates from BP, TUI, UniCredit, Kering, Aker Solutions, Ams-Osram

Opening Call:

Stock futures were tracking lower, in tandem with Asian stock benchmarks as traders digested Trump's tariffs on steel and aluminum. The dollar strengthened; oil and gold futures also rose.

Equities:

Stock futures were lower as investors digest President Trump's announcement for a 25% tariff on imports of steel and aluminum without any exceptions.

Canada's economy is relatively exposed, and U.S. steel prices will likely rise, Capital Economics said, while the impact on China's economy will be negligible, as the U.S. already has high tariffs on Chinese steel and aluminum.

However, with broader reciprocal levies also on the table, tariffs are still set to drive U.S. inflation higher and weigh on global growth this year, it said.

With the trade dispute with the U.S. intensifying, China's cabinet on Tuesday pledged to boost domestic consumption while vowing to stabilize foreign capital crucial for job creation. Beijing is facing mounting pressure to reduce its heavy reliance on exports while bolstering domestic spending.

Market focus today is on Chair Powell's Congress hearings and the U.S. inflation data later this week. Powell is scheduled to speak to senators today and address the House on Wednesday. Markets are still uncertain about how tariffs and other Trump policies will impact inflation, an issue that could be raised during Powell's testimony.

Forex:

Sterling's prospects remain relatively good as the Bank of England is likely to maintain a cautious approach to cutting interest rates, Ebury economist Enrique Diaz-Alvarez said.

The BOE cut rates by 25 basis points last week and signaled concerns about the economic outlook as it slashed its 2025 growth forecast. However, sticky inflation and elevated wage growth could limit the scope of future cuts, Diaz-Alvarez said.

"We think that markets may be overstating the degree to which the BOE will be able to cut rates this year as the Monetary Policy Committee itself stressed that gradual cuts remain the way forward."

Bonds:

Fed Chair Powell's Congress hearings are in focus for bond markets.

"We're all too cognizant that the overall direction of US rates could quickly turn as Trump continues refining U.S. trade policy," Ian Lyngen and Vail Hartman, rates strategists at BMO Capital Markets, said.

"Powell's testimony on Tuesday will be notable insofar as how the Chair chooses to characterize the tariff announcements thus far and whether they leave the FOMC more or less likely to respond via monetary policy," they said.

"Our take remains that the more dramatically tariffs are increased, the higher the probability that Powell delays the resumption of normalization until much later in the year - if not 2026."

Energy:

Oil edged higher. Crude oil has rebounded recently amid signs of tightening supplies, ANZ Research analysts said. Russian oil production fell short of its OPEC+ quota in January, easing oversupply concerns, they said.

"At present, any disruption to crude oil supply is expected to be limited and has not resulted in any change to our long-term price expectations at this time," said Seth Harper, commodity analyst at Schneider Electric.

"However, the risk of quick, significant shifts remains elevated and is likely to continue contributing to near-term market volatility."

Metals:

Gold advanced in Asia aided by prospects of demand for the precious metal as a hedge against inflation. U.S. President Trump on Monday announced global 25% tariffs on imports of steel and aluminum to the U.S.

Key commodities including gold have absorbed the latest round of inflation-inducing measures of the Trump administration, said Matt Simpson, market analyst at FOREX.com and City Index. Gold's daily chart shows a strong bullish trend which appears averse to any meaningful pullback greater than a day, Simpson added.

--

Aluminum futures edged lower as traders digest President Trump's announcement of global 25% tariffs on imports of aluminum and steel to the U.S. Any tariffs are expected to result in higher prices for U.S. manufacturers, ANZ Research's commodity strategists said.

This would most likely be in the form of higher U.S. Midwest premiums rather than a sustained uplift in the LME price of aluminum futures, although this can't be ruled out, the strategists added.

--

Iron ore gained. The steelmaking ingredient may find some support thanks to strong near-term demand and supply dynamics, Nanhua Futures analysts said. Demand is likely to improve as Chinese steel factories resume production after the Lunar New Year holiday, they added.

Investors will closely watch end-user demand for steel while digesting Trump's 25% tariffs on aluminum and steel imports into the U.S.

TODAY'S TOP HEADLINES

China's Xi Is Building an Economic Fortress Against U.S. Pressure

A day in China could easily start like this: Roll out of bed and swipe through WeChat messages on your Huawei smartphone. Hop into a BYD electric car and drive to the railroad station, where a high-speed train from a state-run factory whisks you to your destination. Chinese-designed nuclear plants, solar farms and wind turbines power the city's lights.

China is racing to make itself less reliant on the outside world's products and technology-part of a yearslong effort by leader Xi Jinping to make China more self-sufficient and impervious to Western pressure as tensions with the U.S. rise. Beijing has poured hundreds of billions of dollars into favored industries, especially in high-end manufacturing, while exhorting business leaders to fall in line with the government's priorities.

Trump Imposes Global 25% Steel, Aluminum Tariffs

WASHINGTON-President Trump on Monday announced 25% tariffs on imports of steel and aluminum to the U.S., reinstating global duties without exceptions for allies such as Canada, Mexico, Japan and South Korea that were relaxed by the Biden administration.

"It's a big deal. This is the beginning of making America rich again," Trump said in the Oval Office, as he signed dual executive orders for steel and aluminum tariffs. "No exceptions, no nothing," Trump added.

Mediobanca Lifts Shareholder Return Target

Mediobanca Banca di Credito Finanziario raised its shareholder distribution target and revenue forecasts for its next fiscal year after growth accelerated in recent months.

The Italian lender said it expects to return more than 4 billion euros ($4.13 billion) to shareholders between 2023 and 2026, above a previous forecast of EUR3.7 billion. That target includes cash and share buybacks.

Helsing, Mistral to Jointly Develop AI Systems for Military Use

Two of Europe's biggest startups, Helsing and Mistral AI, have teamed up to develop AI systems for military use.

Helsing, a German-British company focused on the integration of artificial intelligence in defense platforms, and Mistral, a French developer of large language models, said Monday that they will combine their technologies to improve collaboration between soldiers and artificial intelligence on the battlefield.

Activist Elliott Ratchets Up Pressure on Phillips 66 With Over $2.5 Billion Stake

Activist Elliott Investment Management has built a more than $2.5 billion stake in Phillips 66 and plans to push the oil refiner to consider operational changes to boost its stagnant stock, according to people familiar with the matter.

Elliott plans to seek a number of changes to simplify Phillips 66, most notably pushing the company to sell or spin off its big midstream business, the people said. The Houston-based company's midstream business makes money transporting energy, and is usually more immune to commodity-price fluctuations than the refining or production sides of the oil business.

Elon Musk-Led Group Makes $97.4 Billion Bid for Control of OpenAI

A consortium of investors led by Elon Musk is offering $97.4 billion to buy the nonprofit that controls OpenAI, raising the stakes in his battle with Sam Altman over the company behind ChatGPT.

Musk's lawyer, Marc Toberoff, said he submitted a bid for all the nonprofit's assets to OpenAI's board of directors Monday.

Write to singaporeeditors@dowjones.com

Expected Major Events for Tuesday

00:01/UK: Jan BRC-KPMG Retail Sales Monitor

00:01/UK: Jan UK Nations and Regions Growth Tracker

06:30/FRA: 4Q ILO Unemployment and Labour Market-related indicators

07:00/NOR: 4Q GDP

07:30/HUN: Jan CPI

08:00/SVK: Dec Construction production

10:00/MLT: Dec International Trade

15:59/UKR: Jan CPI

All times in GMT. Powered by Onclusive and Dow Jones.

Write to us at newsletters@dowjones.com

We offer an enhanced version of this briefing that is optimized for viewing on mobile devices and sent directly to your email inbox. If you would like to sign up, please go to https://newsplus.wsj.com/subscriptions.

This article is a text version of a Wall Street Journal newsletter published earlier today.

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250211000004:0/)
