---
title: "Market Talk Roundup: Latest on U.S. Politics"
date: "2025-02-13 01:52:00"
summary: "The latest Market Talks covering U.S. politics. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.1252 ET - Coca-Cola imports aluminium from Canada for its U.S. soda cans, though higher prices for the metal could scramble this operation, CEO James Quincey says on a call with analysts. The soda company..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The latest Market Talks covering U.S. politics. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.

1252 ET - Coca-Cola imports aluminium from Canada for its U.S. soda cans, though higher prices for the metal could scramble this operation, CEO James Quincey says on a call with analysts. The soda company wants to limit price hikes for consumers in order to preserve demand, which could lead to the company considering new bottling materials: "So for example, if aluminum cans become more expensive, we can put more emphasis on PET bottles," he says. This adaptability should ensure tariffs don't drag volumes lower in 2025. "I think we control enough variables that we can adapt and mitigate our way through what is happening, because it's a combination of hedging, which we use on the key materials," Quincey says. (connor.hart@wsj.com)

1206 ET - Base metal prices are mixed, with LME three-month copper up 1.1% at $9,459 a metric ton and LME three-month aluminum down 0.6% at $2,623.50 a ton. President Trump's planned 25% tariffs on all steel and aluminum products have already widened the Midwest premium U.S. buyers have to pay over LME prices. The latest LME commitment of traders report shows investors increased their net bullish position in copper by 5,224 lots for a sixth consecutive week to 73,763 lots for the week ended Feb. 7--the highest net long position since the beginning of November, ING analysts say in a note. In aluminum, speculators raised net bullish bets by 2,109 lots to 119,588 lots over the last reporting week. This was the highest bullish bet since mid-November, ING adds. (joseph.hoppe@wsj.com)

1158 ET - Canada Prime Minister Justin Trudeau says he had a short encounter with Vice President JD Vance about the negative fallout from a 25% tariff on steel and aluminum from Ohio. Trudeau tells reporters he told Vance — for an AI conference in Paris that the two lawmakers attended — that about C$2.2 billion of Canadian-made steel and aluminum are used by manufacturers in Vance's home state. "He nodded and noted it," Trudeau says, noting it was a short exchange. Earlier in the day, Quebec Premier Francois Legault mused that perhaps Canada should slap an export tax on U.S.-bound aluminum should the Trump administration imposes a hefty tariff on the metal. Canadian officials play down talk of export taxes, saying they want to press U.S. officials for a carve out. (paul.vieira@wsj.com, @paulvieira)

1058 ET - Quebec Premier Francois Legault suggests that Canada might want to slap an export tax on aluminum should President Trump follow through on imposing a 25% tariff on all imported steel and aluminum. Canada is by far the biggest seller of foreign aluminum to the U.S., and the bulk of Canadian aluminum is in the province of Quebec. The U.S. "really needs us" on aluminum, says Legault, who is in Washington with other Canadian premiers to persuade lawmakers and officials about the potential fallout on tariffs on Canadian imports. An export tax on products like aluminum might get Trump's attention, he says. "We have to be careful," Legault adds, "[because] we want to have a deal with no tariffs." (paul.vieira@wsj.com; @paulvieira)

1057 ET - Boot Barn still has time to navigate the brewing trade war, says BofA Securities' Christopher Nardone and Lorraine Hutchinson in a research note. The lifestyle retail chain's sourcing footprint includes about 30% of production in China and 25% in Mexico, say the analysts. They expect the incremental 10% tariff on China will be manageable through vendor negotiations and potential pricing actions. Production in Mexico will be tough to move to other regions, they note, but expect the potential 25% tariff on the country to be addressed by price increases. "Boot Barn turns inventory roughly twice per year, so they still have some time to navigate the situation," say the analysts. "Risks of a harsher tariff playbook may linger given the volatility of the current political situation." (denny.jacob@wsj.com; @pennedbyden)

0950 ET - The U.K. economic growth outlook has weakened but sterling could still outpeform the euro this year given problems facing the eurozone, Rabobank forex strategist Jane Foley says in a note. The EU faces further action from President Trump after he announced tariffs on steel and aluminum imports, she says. This could "endanger the region's fragile growth outlook further." Since U.S. data indicate a trade surplus with the U.K., tariffs appear less of a threat for Britain. Rabobank expects EUR/GBP to fall to 0.8150 by year-end, from 0.8334 currently. However, in the coming months it sees scope for range trading between 0.83-0.84 as the worsened U.K. outlook and last month's U.K. government-bond selloff has dented its confidence in sterling. (renae.dyer@wsj.com)

0939 ET - The Public Company Accounting Oversight Board withdrew two controversial disclosure rules from consideration by the Securities and Exchange Commission as the securities regulator prepares for new leadership under the Trump administration. The PCAOB, which regulates the auditors of U.S. public companies, pulled projects that would've required certain firms to submit financial statements annually to the regulator and publicly disclose a set of eight metrics. The five-member board approved both rules, 4-1 each, in November, with the SEC then needing to sign off for them to take effect. The withdrawal comes after conversations with the SEC, the audit watchdog says. Audit firms largely opposed the projects, saying the additional requirements were unnecessary, while investors generally supported the rules in a bid for greater transparency. Both projects remain on the PCAOB's standard-setting agenda. (mark.maurer@wsj.com; @markgmaurer)

0936 ET - Denny's says it's seen a change in consumer sentiment in recent weeks, depressing sales. The family-dining brand had forecast a resilient consumer at the start of 2025, despite the California fires and rough winter weather. Since later January and into February, consumer sentiment has fallen as the news delivers uncertainty, depressing same-store sales for its brands, Denny's executives say on a 4Q call. The brand gave a more conservative 2025 financial outlook based on results so far. Denny's slides 10% in early trading. (heather.haddon@wsj.com; @heatherhaddon)

0625 ET - Base metal prices are mixed, with LME three-month copper up 0.3% at $9,387 a metric ton and LME three-month aluminum down 0.9% at $2,615.50 a ton. Tariff pressures are building for the U.S. economy, BMI says, which could pressure industrial metal demand lower. President Trump's 25% tariffs on aluminum and steel imports could prompt further escalations, it notes. Further tariffs, including the proposed blanket Mexican and Canadian tariffs, could also strengthen the Midwest premium and widen the price difference between U.S. and LME prices. Tariffs will help boost domestic steel production, but it will be a challenge to significantly increase output, BMI writes. The U.S. aluminum industry isn't globally competitive given high costs, and imports account for around 50% of total demand, suggesting significant pass-through effects, BMI adds. (joseph.hoppe@wsj.com)

0528 ET - France has robust foundations on which to weather a trade battle with the U.S., central-bank governor Francois Villeroy de Galhau argues. The eurozone's second-largest economy is, like the rest of the continent, braced for punitive tariffs on its goods exported to the U.S. under President Trump. But France isn't reliant solely on strong export sectors like aeronautics and luxury goods, Villeroy insists. "The French economy... also includes many services, artificial intelligence, tourism and many other areas still developing," the policymaker says. France's level of price inflation has meanwhile been tamed and unemployment is at relatively low levels, he tells Radio France. (joshua.kirby@wsj.com; @joshualeokirby)

0525 ET - Europe should treat U.S. President Trump as wake-up call, Bank of France Governor Francois Villeroy de Galhau says. Trump's election to a second term in the White House has brought about an immediate cooling of relations between the U.S. and Europe, with mutual threats of trade tariffs. Europe must not allow itself to be caught unaware by Trump's mercurial policymaking, Villeroy tells Radio France. "That is not a viable economic strategy," he says. Europe has many strengths and should not make a rod for its own back, says Villeroy, who serves on the governing council of the European Central Bank. "It is very much to be wished that Europe wake up," he says. (joshua.kirby@wsj.com; @joshualeokirby)

0445 ET - Bitcoin edges lower on market volatility and investor caution ahead of U.S. inflation data, Zaye Capital Markets analyst Naeem Aslam says in a note. The inflation data at 1330 GMT could affect broader financial markets and cryptocurrency valuations, he says. "Additionally, recent geopolitical tensions and economic uncertainties have contributed to the cautious sentiment among investors." The cryptocurrency market, particularly bitcoin, might have reached a peak, he says. The surge in so-called memecoins and President Trump's involvement in launching new cryptocurrencies are signs of potential market overheating. Zaye maintains a positive long-term view on bitcoin but advises caution due to macroeconomic concerns. Bitcoin falls 0.3% to $96,130, according to LSEG. (renae.dyer@wsj.com)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250212011025:0/)
