---
title: "Elon Musk Defends Cost-Cutting Efforts in Oval Office Appearance — WSJ"
date: "2025-02-12 08:40:00"
summary: "By Tarini Parti and Alex LearyWASHINGTON — Elon Musk defended his cost-cutting plans as a common-sense campaign to rein in out-of-control government spending, amid opposition from Democrats and legal challenges that have stalled some of his efforts.Appearing Tuesday alongside President Trump in the Oval Office, the billionaire offered a lengthy..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Tarini Parti and Alex Leary

WASHINGTON — Elon Musk defended his cost-cutting plans as a common-sense campaign to rein in out-of-control government spending, amid opposition from Democrats and legal challenges that have stalled some of his efforts.

Appearing Tuesday alongside President Trump in the Oval Office, the billionaire offered a lengthy explanation of his views on the federal government and made the case for his Department of Government Efficiency.

Musk, wearing a black "Make America Great Again" hat, described federal workers as an "unelected, fourth, unconstitutional branch of government" that he said has "more power than any elected representative."

"It does not match the will of people," he said. "So it's just something we've got to fix, and they've also got to address the deficit."

Trump signed an executive order Tuesday giving DOGE more authority to reduce the size of the federal workforce. The order directs agencies to restrict hiring to essential positions, with some exceptions.

Musk was joined in the Oval Office by one of his sons, who sat on his father's shoulders for part of the impromptu news conference. The roughly 30-minute event was one of Musk's lengthiest public discussions about DOGE's work.

"It's not optional for us to reduce the federal expenses," Musk said. "It's essential. It's essential for America to remain solvent as a country."

Musk compared the scrutiny he is facing to a "daily proctology exam." He said the public could make its own judgments about his potential conflicts of interest. Trump added that if the White House thought there was a lack of transparency or a conflict for Musk, then "we would not let him do that segment or look in that area."

Asked about the Trump administration's false assertion that the federal government sent $50 million worth of condoms to Gaza, the billionaire acknowledged that he might at times promote erroneous information. "Some of the things that I say will be incorrect and should be corrected," Musk said. "Nobody is going to bat 1000."

In the weeks since Trump took office, DOGE staffers have embedded at several federal agencies, reviewing government systems for excessive spending. In some cases, the administration has slowed the work of agencies such as the U.S. Agency for International Development and the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau.

DOGE gained access to a Treasury Department payment system that sends trillions of dollars to Americans and businesses every year. Musk defended DOGE's efforts to review the payment system as an example of instituting "common-sense controls."

"It's not draconian or radical," Musk said. "I think it's really just saying, 'Let's look at each of the expenditures,' and say, 'Is this actually in the best interest of the people?' "

A federal judge in New York on Saturday temporarily restricted DOGE's access to the Treasury's payment system. U.S. District Judge Paul Engelmayer, who was appointed by former President Barack Obama, set a hearing in the case for Friday.

During the Oval Office event on Tuesday, Trump criticized judges for blocking the administration's efforts. "It seems hard to believe that judges want to try and stop us from looking for corruption, especially when we found hundreds of millions of dollars worth," Trump said.

The administration has given most federal-government workers the choice to either return to the office full-time or resign and get paid for the next eight months. Roughly 65,000 federal workers have opted to resign, according to an administration official. The White House has previously estimated that 5% to 10% of federal employees would accept the offer.

A federal judge in Massachusetts paused a deadline for federal employees to decide whether to accept the offer to resign.

Asked about Democratic criticism that Musk was orchestrating a hostile takeover of the government, the Tesla chief executive responded: "The people voted for major government reform, and that's what people are going to get."

Musk said he spoke to Trump almost daily and checks with him and agency heads before making decisions. "There are sort of checks in place," he said. "So it's not just us just going in and doing things willy-nilly."

Musk said the administration was resuming funding through the State Department for USAID programs that were focused on disease prevention. "We are moving fast, so we will make mistakes, but we also fix the mistakes very quickly," Musk said.

As another example of potential fraud, Musk said DOGE had found people receiving Social Security benefits who are 150 years old. Other Social Security payments have gone to people with no identifying information.

"We want to make sure that people who deserve to receive Social Security do receive it, and that they receive it quickly and accurately," he said.

Write to Tarini Parti at tarini.parti@wsj.com and Alex Leary at alex.leary@wsj.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250211012302:0/)
