---
title: "These Stocks Are Moving the Most Today: Super Micro, Tesla, CVS, Vertiv, Zillow, Upstart, Lyft, Gilead, and More — Barrons.com"
date: "2025-02-13 00:55:00"
summary: "By Joe WoelfelStocks were sliding Wednesday after U.S. consumer inflation picked up more than expected in January.These stocks were making moves Wednesday:Super Micro Computer rose 6% after the artificial-intelligence server maker issued strong guidance for fiscal 2026. CEO Charles Liang, in a business update Tuesday, said the company saw fiscal..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Joe Woelfel

Stocks were sliding Wednesday after U.S. consumer inflation picked up more than expected in January.

These stocks were making moves Wednesday:

Super Micro Computer rose 6% after the artificial-intelligence server maker issued strong guidance for fiscal 2026. CEO Charles Liang, in a business update Tuesday, said the company saw fiscal 2025 revenue "in the range of $23.5 billion to $25 billion, paving the way for $40 billion revenue in FY26." The new revenue range for fiscal 2025 was lower than prior guidance for $26 billion to $30 billion, but the $40 billion revenue estimate for fiscal 2026 was well above the current consensus of $29.2 billion. Super Micro also said it expects to be able to file its 10-K with the Securities and Exchange Commission for the year through June 30, and the 10-Q report for the quarter ended in September, by Feb. 25.

Tesla was rising 2.6% after the electric-vehicle maker closed down 6.3% on Tuesday, the stock's fifth-straight session of losses. It fell more than 16% over the five days. Investors have been fretting about CEO Elon Musk's distractions, including his move to wrest control of OpenAI from Sam Altman, and his involvement running the newly formed Department of Government Efficiency for the Trump White House.

CVS Health jumped 14% after the healthcare company posted fourth-quarter earnings that were better than expectations and said it anticipates adjusted earnings in 2025 of between $5.75 and $6 a share, up from $5.42 in 2024, and roughly in line with analysts' consensus.

Gilead Sciences reported fourth-quarter adjusted earnings of $1.90 a share, topping the consensus estimate of $1.74, and it issued guidance for fiscal 2025 that was better than analysts's expectations. The stock was up 7.8%.

U.S.-listed shares of Alibaba rose 3.6% after The Wall Street Journal reported the Chinese e-commerce giant made progress in its partnership with Apple to roll out artificial-intelligence features in China.

Vertiv Holdings fell 8.6% after the maker of cooling systems for artificial-intelligence data centers reported fourth-quarter earnings that beat expectations but maintained its guidance for the year.

DoorDash, the food-delivery app, was rising 2.5% after estimating that first-quarter marketplace gross order value — the total dollar value of orders made on the platform — would be between $22.6 billion to $23 billion, higher than expectations of $22.41 billion. Gross order value in the fourth quarter rose 21% from a year earlier to $21.3 billion, beating forecasts of $20.93 billion.

Shares of Zillow declined 14% after the home-listing site reported fourth-quarter adjusted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization, and revenue that beat Wall Street expectations but its outlook for the first quarter missed consensus. Zillow said it anticipates adjusted Ebitda in the first quarter to range from $125 million to $140 million, lower than analysts' forecasts of $158 million. It expects revenue 0f $575 million to $590 million, shy of expectations 0f $600 million. The stock also took a hit from the uptick in shelter costs in the U.S. inflation report.

Shares of Upstart surged 30% after the artificial-intelligence lending company said it expects first-quarter revenue of about $200 million, better than analysts' forecasts of $184.6 million. Upstart also said it expects adjusted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization in the period of $27 million, higher than expectations of $9 million.

Ride-hailing platform Lyft was tumbling 9% after saying it expects first-quarter gross bookings of about $4.05 billion to $4.2 billion "amidst the recent pricing environment in the U.S. market," shy of Wall Street's expectations of $4.24 billion. In the fourth quarter, Lyft reported gross bookings of $4.28 billion, up 15% from a year earlier but below forecasts of $4.32 billion. Revenue in the fourth quarter was $1.55 billion, shy of analysts' forecasts of $1.56 billion.

Mercury General was up 22% after fourth-quarter earnings and revenue beat Wall Street estimates. The Los Angeles-based insurer said it estimates gross catastrophe losses from the California wildfires — before its share of FAIR plan losses — in the range of $1.6 billion to $2 billion, and pretax net catastrophe losses of $155 million to $325 million.

Shares of Meta Platforms were down 0.3% at $717.64. The parent company of Facebook and Instragram rose 0.3% on Tuesday to a record high of $719.80. The stock extended its record winning streak to 17 sessions, and has gained 17.8% over the period, according to Dow Jones Market Data.

Earnings reports are expected later Wednesday from Cisco Systems, AppLovin, Robinhood Markets, Reddit, MGM Resorts, and Albemarle.

Write to Joe Woelfel at joseph.woelfel@barrons.com

This content was created by Barron's, which is operated by Dow Jones & Co. Barron's is published independently from Dow Jones Newswires and The Wall Street Journal.

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250212003678:0/)
