---
title: "Baxter Declares Quarterly Dividend"
date: "2025-02-12 05:30:00"
summary: "Baxter Declares Quarterly DividendDEERFIELD, Ill.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--February 11, 2025--Baxter International Inc. , a global medtech leader, today announced that its Board of Directors has declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.17 per share of common stock. The dividend is payable on April 1, 2025, to stockholders of record as of Feb...."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Baxter Declares Quarterly Dividend

DEERFIELD, Ill.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--February 11, 2025--

Baxter International Inc. , a global medtech leader, today announced that its Board of Directors has declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.17 per share of common stock. The dividend is payable on April 1, 2025, to stockholders of record as of Feb. 28, 2025. The indicated annual dividend rate is $0.68 per share of common stock.

About Baxter

Every day, millions of patients, caregivers and healthcare providers rely on Baxter's leading portfolio of diagnostic, critical care, nutrition, hospital and surgical products used across patient homes, hospitals, physician offices and other sites of care. For more than 90 years, we've been operating at the critical intersection where innovations that save and sustain lives meet the healthcare providers who make it happen. With products, digital health solutions and therapies available in more than 100 countries, Baxter's employees worldwide are now building upon the company's rich heritage of medical breakthroughs to advance the next generation of transformative healthcare innovations. To learn more, visit www.baxter.com and follow us on X, LinkedIn and Facebook.

This release includes forward-looking statements concerning the company's capital allocation, which currently includes the issuance of quarterly dividends. These forward-looking statements are based on assumptions about many factors (including Baxter's ability to achieve its short- and long-term financial goals), and it is possible that Baxter's annual dividend payout rate may differ, possibly materially, from the anticipated annual indicative dividend described herein or may be suspended for a period of time. For information about some of the risks and important factors that could affect Baxter's future results, financial condition and liquidity, see Baxter's most recent filings on Forms 10-K and 10-Q and other SEC filings, all of which are available on Baxter's website. Baxter does not undertake to update its forward-looking statements unless otherwise required by the federal securities laws.

Baxter is a registered trademark of Baxter International Inc.

View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20250211381927/en/

CONTACT: Media Contact

Steve Brett, (224) 948-5353

media@baxter.com

Investor Contact

Clare Trachtman, (224) 948-3020

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250211011207:0/)
