---
title: "Heard on the Street Recap: Reciprocity Delayed — WSJ"
date: "2025-02-14 08:26:00"
summary: "By Heard EditorsPresident Trump signed a memo on reciprocal tariffs. But rather than clarify the tariff outlook, the action leaves many unanswered questions. Agencies will now study how to adjust U.S. tariff rates to match existing duties and other economic barriers enforced by other nations. Commerce Secretary nominee Howard Lutnick..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Heard Editors

President Trump signed a memo on reciprocal tariffs. But rather than clarify the tariff outlook, the action leaves many unanswered questions. Agencies will now study how to adjust U.S. tariff rates to match existing duties and other economic barriers enforced by other nations. Commerce Secretary nominee Howard Lutnick said those studies should be completed by April 1.

Uncertainty will now persist. It remains unclear how the U.S. will treat non-tariff barriers, including the value-added taxes used by many nations around the world. Trump said Thursday that VATs would be viewed as tariffs, which would mean substantially higher U.S. tariffs on exporters including the European Union.

But markets seemed relieved. The announcement does mean there won't be an immediate imposition of reciprocal tariffs as many had feared. The S&P 500 ended the day up 1.0%, adding to gains in the late afternoon after the tariff announcement. The Dow Jones Industrial Average added 343 points, or 0.8%, and the Nasdaq climbed 1.5%.

An inflation reading provided more reassurance. Like the Consumer Price Index on Wednesday, the Producer Price Index for January came in a little hotter than expectations on Thursday. But some details of the PPI reading were actually encouraging, suggesting that the Federal Reserve's preferred measure of inflation is still declining. Bond yields declined in response, with the yield on the 10-year note declining 0.108 percentage point to 4.524%

Robinhood Markets rallied. The online broker soared 14% after reporting quarterly earnings that were boosted by a boom in crypto trading. While this could prove fleeting, Heard on the Street's Telis Demos argues that Robinhood has built up a more durable business with many long-term revenue drivers.

This analysis comes from the Journal's Heard on the Street team. Subscribe to their free daily afternoon newsletter here.

This item is part of a Wall Street Journal live coverage event. The full stream can be found by searching P/WSJL (WSJ Live Coverage).

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250213017909:0/)
