---
title: "The Market Mostly Likes Trump Part Two, but What About the Collateral Damage? — Barrons.com"
date: "2025-02-08 04:35:00"
summary: "By Andy SerwerEvery phase of the stock market contains a mixture of \"yup, seen this before\" with \"wow, this is totally new.\" How much of each is a matter of degree, and subject to one's own perception.Not to lean on one of Wall Street's most disproved saws — \"this time..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Andy Serwer

Every phase of the stock market contains a mixture of "yup, seen this before" with "wow, this is totally new." How much of each is a matter of degree, and subject to one's own perception.

Not to lean on one of Wall Street's most disproved saws — "this time is different" — but the first three weeks of President Donald Trump's second term are unequivocally staking new ground, not only for investors but also for America writ large and the rest of the world.

How about the fact that tens of millions of us believe that Donald Trump is God's gift to our country, while tens of millions more loathe the man. Other presidents have brought out the love/hate in us, but nothing like Donald Trump — and if that doesn't make for a market, nothing does. It also makes defining him "impartially" difficult — or maybe it renders that word obsolete.

More to the point for those of us who toil in the world of money and investing, the mixed signals are dizzying. Back-and-forth tariffs, the gutting of the federal government, the role of Elon Musk and his merry band, Gaza (becoming what, our 50-something state?), and the questionable legality of some or all of this have filled markets with sound and fury. In the final analysis, though, there's only a little bit of signifying. In the 18 days since Trump took office, the S&P 500 is up 1.4%, compared with an average 0.9% return for all presidents' first 18 days in the White House since 1929.

But yes, you can say the market apparently likes what it sees. Shares of companies as disparate as Baker Hughes, Netflix, JPMorgan Chase, and Walmart were among the 213 stocks making 52-week highs on Thursday (as opposed to 80 new lows), mirroring perhaps that Americans who voted for Trump are mostly happy with him. Which makes sense, since they voted for a Disrupter in Chief, not someone to break bread with Mitt Romney or Chuck Schumer or even the Business Roundtable. It's like that old Toyota commercial: You asked for it, you got it!

Another boost to the market perhaps is belief in what's known as the "Trump put," which presupposes that if stocks tank in response to policy moves made by the president, he will retract said policy. That, devotees of this theory say, is exactly what happened this past week. Recall last Saturday, when Trump announced 25% tariffs on Mexican and Canadian goods and an additional 10% levy on Chinese goods. The market took a big hit Monday morning, but pared its losses after Mexico announced it had negotiated a one-month reprieve. Canada subsequently wangled a similar deferral (the Chinese didn't), and the market recovered.

Some argue that while the Trump put exists, the support level is lower than generally thought. In other words, the president would be willing to let the market fall significantly. But even that offers some comfort, in that it suggests he still cares about us market participants.

"[Former Treasury Secretary Steven] Mnuchin said that Trump uses the stock market as his real-time report card," notes Sam Ro of Substack's the TKer. "I'm pretty sure that's still true. Not that anyone can control the stock market. But I think he's not looking to actively bring it down. He's surrounded by guys like [Treasury Secretary Scott] Bessent and a bunch of billionaires whose wealth is tied to stocks."

Also perhaps reassuring is that while Trump has the likes of the federal government, DEI (diversity, equity, and inclusion) initiatives, wind power, and China in his sights, for the most part he isn't targeting mainstream business, be it Procter & Gamble or the local bodega. In fact, business is a facet of our society the president wants to "make great again." Fair enough.

Yet there has to be concern about collateral damage from his moves, such as decimating necessary parts of government (yes, such things exist), reversing equality efforts, deporting too many or the wrong people, and most significantly, undermining our rule of law to the degree that we become a banana republic or something worse.

Risks abound: "It is time to put someone in there who's going to go wild, " said Sen. Thom Tillis (R., N.C.) this week, regarding the prospect of Robert F. Kennedy Jr. heading up the Department of Health and Human Services. Given that "wild" and "healthcare" are usually considered mutually exclusive, this bears watching.

As for responses to what some would consider the excesses of Trumpism, the silence has been deafening from some quarters. We haven't heard Senate Majority Leader John Thune name-checked recently, for example. (Helloooooo, South Dakota! Anybody home?)

CEOs, too, are mostly either silent or down with Trump, like five of the seven Mag 7 CEOs (or is it MAGA 7?) — heads of the tech giants that are the nation's seven most-valuable companies — who attended Trump's inauguration. (Jensen Huang of Nvidia and Satya Nadella of Microsoft were absent.)

Most of the executives I've been speaking with gave me the shrug and what're-you-gonna-do look. I asked one wired-in Wall Streeter what he was hearing from his network regarding Trump. "Nothing special," Wired-in told me. "Just that Trump made several campaign promises and has quickly and aggressively begun implementation. Some of it is long overdue. Some of it is kinda nutty. It's the stark contrast between the former administration that has people's attention."

Are there actionable or tradable takeaways from Trump Part Deux? Cliff Asness, head of the hedge fund AQR ($123 billion under management), who in his quant funds looks mostly at the variability between prices of securities, told me he had made some tweaks that amounted to "very little, but not zero." First, Asness examined the 1,000 stocks he was invested in to determine how he was exposed to the imposition of tariffs. As it turned out, the portfolio was "slightly long tariffs," he said. "I'm personally not a tariff guy, but Monday we had a pretty good day."

Asness also says that "macro uncertainty — chaos, for want of a better word — is higher than normal. This is hard to quantify, and a quant hates saying something is hard to quantify. But whether you love or hate what [Trump's] doing, if you don't think the macro uncertainty is higher now, I don't think you've been paying total attention."

Curiously, Asness' uncertainty hasn't manifested itself in the Street's most widely known measure of volatility, the Cboe Volatility Index, or VIX. The VIX actually indicated less volatility during Trump's first term and since election day in November, compared with historical norms.

But paradoxically, the VVIX, a measure of the volatility of the VIX — a sort of a "fear of fear" index — has risen from Trump's last time in office (up from an average of 88.97 to 99.04) and is above the historic average of 92.86. In other words, the index suggests investors are anticipating increased volatility. Still, this seems like thin gruel for ordinary investors and more like something for hardcore pros like Asness.

The folks at Morgan Stanley offer more sustenance, dropping a 73-page report on Wednesday: "Tariffs and Trade Protectionism: Our 'One-Stop-Shop' Playbook." They conclude that sectors at most risk from increased tariffs include IT hardware and equipment, autos, and certain consumer stocks, while sectors that could benefit from tariff tailwinds include industrials and metals. Of that latter group, analyst Chris Snyder points to names like Trane Technologies, Vertiv Holdings, Johnson Controls International, Eaton Corp., and Acuity Brands as best positioned to benefit from higher tariffs. In the understatement of the week, Morgan Stanley analysts conclude, "We expect news around tariffs to remain fluid."

It used to be that the first 100 days ( a notion coined by FDR) were when a president set the tone for his term. Trump has made his mark in a fraction of that time, operating his presidency seemingly in dog years. For those who wish to keep score over the next 80 days or so, I refer you to Morgan Stanley strategist Michael Zezas' "100 Day Brief: Your guide to navigating the first 100 days of the Trump administration..." which includes a full docket of policy changes and unwindings to come. In other words, Trump, vigorous at 78, has no plans to slow down.

At some point, though, the president likely will have to do battle with some sort of black swan almost certain to swim across his already not-so placid pond. In fact, one such bird may already be in sight. Avian flu is pushing egg prices ever upward, prompting Waffle House, a red-state eatery of choice, to impose a 50-cent per egg surcharge, which with two eggs, becomes a 16.8% bump to its typical $5.95 breakfast. A stark reminder that ushering in revolution won't be Trump's only order of business.

Speaking of Trump's revolution, it's in fact not a bad thing to put everything on the table, to challenge ossified assumptions, to cease kowtowing to sacred cows. It's also true that in previous administrations, talk of momentous change sometimes resulted in six to 12 months of hearings, procedure, and litigation, and in the end a cursory cut of an agency's workforce — followed by a commensurate rehiring four years later.

Government agencies do come and go. Global maps and even sovereignties change, too. It is strange, though, to have a serious conversation with a Canadian acquaintance about how a takeover of that country by the U.S. might legally transpire. Would King Charles III have to weigh in? Truly, who knows?

As for Greenland, the Danes sometimes say that their attachment to the giant island goes back 1,000 years. What that attachment speaks to mostly is restless Vikings, some missionaries, and fishermen. More recent history has ownership of Greenland being disputed by the Norwegians and the Danes and then falling under the auspices of the U.S. in World War II. In other words, Greenland wasn't so much a part of Denmark 500 years ago, and I'll bet my velvet-lined casket it won't be controlled by the Danes 500 years from now, either.

Or maybe even sooner.

Write to andy.serwer@barrons.com

This content was created by Barron's, which is operated by Dow Jones & Co. Barron's is published independently from Dow Jones Newswires and The Wall Street Journal.

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250207009759:0/)
