---
title: "General American Investors Company Common/Preferred Stock — Dividend/Distribution"
date: "2025-02-13 05:25:00"
summary: "General American Investors Company Common/Preferred Stock — Dividend/DistributionNEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)--February 12, 2025--The Board of Directors of General American Investors Company, Inc. (NYSE symbol — GAM), a closed-end investment company, declared a spill-over capital gain distribution on its common stock totaling $0.25 per share from net long-term profits on securities sold..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

General American Investors Company Common/Preferred Stock — Dividend/Distribution

NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)--February 12, 2025--

The Board of Directors of General American Investors Company, Inc. (NYSE symbol — GAM), a closed-end investment company, declared a spill-over capital gain distribution on its common stock totaling $0.25 per share from net long-term profits on securities sold during the period November 1, 2024 through December 31, 2024. This is sourced from long-term capital gain income and is expected to be taxable as such. The dividend and distribution is payable in cash on March 7, 2025 to stockholders of record on February 24, 2025 and is to be included in stockholders' federal income tax returns for 2025.

The Board of Directors also declared on its 5.95% cumulative preferred stock, series B, a dividend and distribution of $0.371875 per share payable in cash on March 24, 2025 to holders of record on March 7, 2025. This quarterly dividend and distribution represents a payment for the accrual period from December 24, 2024 through March 23, 2025. Preferred shareholders will be informed in early 2026 of the taxable portions of the distribution.

General American Investors was founded in 1927, has been publicly traded since its inception and has been listed on the NYSE since 1930. The objective of the Company is long-term capital appreciation through investment in companies with above average growth potential. The Company has total net assets of approximately $1.4 billion applicable to its 23.5 million shares of common stock outstanding. The aggregate liquidation value of the Company's preferred stock is $190 million (NYSE symbol — GAM Pr B).

View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20250212987867/en/

CONTACT: Eugene S. Stark

Vice-President, Administration

(212) 916-8447

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250212013978:0/)
