---
title: "Solid January Jobs Report Plays Into the Fed's Pause — Analysis"
date: "2025-02-08 03:36:00"
summary: "By Matt GrossmanAfter a solid January jobs report, more traders are betting that the Fed's rate-cut pause might not be so brief.When the Federal Reserve reached for a supersized half-point interest-rate cut in September, two concerns fueled the urgency.Inflation had already fallen most of the way back to the central..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Matt Grossman

After a solid January jobs report, more traders are betting that the Fed's rate-cut pause might not be so brief.

When the Federal Reserve reached for a supersized half-point interest-rate cut in September, two concerns fueled the urgency.

Inflation had already fallen most of the way back to the central bank's 2% target, but at an upper bound of 5.5%, the Fed's benchmark interest rate looked like it was still firmly restraining the economy. Meanwhile, a set of weaker monthly job reports over the summer of 2024 prompted anxiety that the labor market could start weakening in a hurry.

Now--after three straight rate cuts last year, and especially after Friday's solid jobs update for January--neither of those factors looks true any longer. That could set up the Fed to extend its January rate-cut pause through much of 2025, with rates holding at or perhaps just below the current 4.25% to 4.5% target.

"I think you still talk about it as a rate-cut cycle, but as the Fed's target gets closer to 4%, it starts to feel like you can pause for a long time, and really drag out the last one or two cuts, moving very slow," said Don Rissmiller, chief economist of research firm Strategas. "I think they would be happy with where they are at."

In January the economy added 143,000 jobs, lower than the 169,000 forecast by economists in The Wall Street Journal's survey.

But the report still included plenty to celebrate.

Job gains in November and December were revised higher by a total of 100,000, meaning that hiring over those two months was 20% better than previously thought. Wage gains remained sturdy. Long-term unemployment, a recent source of concern, moderated slightly from prior months. The unemployment rate, which had recently held steady after ticking higher earlier in 2024, reversed course and improved slightly to 4%.

All in all, there wasn't a great deal of evidence that last summer's darker labor-market omens are still a pressing threat.

Traders responded by shifting their bets away from further Fed rate cuts this year. Their positions in futures markets now reflect a 54% probability that the central bank will bring rates lower by only a quarter point or less over the rest of 2025, up from 42% on Thursday.

To some economists, recent labor-market data has looked so solid that--with the Fed's preferred inflation gauge still at 2.6%--they believe price increases might reemerge as the central bank's primary concern. Tackling inflation was the Fed's singular focus throughout 2022 and 2023, but more recently, central bank officials including Chair Jerome Powell have described risks to inflation and to the labor market as being roughly balanced.

"We don't believe in this Goldilocks scenario," said Steven Ricchiuto, chief economist at Mizuho Securities USA. "We've always been in the camp that inflation would be higher than expected, and to some extent, I think the Fed will have to take that on board."

Ricchiuto noted that in January, average hourly earnings for workers were up by 4.1% over the past 12 months, unchanged from December. "That's a number more consistent with a 3% inflation rate than a 2% rate," he said.

That's not to say the Fed is likely to turn back to rate hikes. Even after last year's cuts, Fed officials mostly still describe their policy stance as restrictive, albeit less so than in mid-2024. That should allow the central bank to stand pat and see whether inflation continues to edge ever so gradually back to the 2% target.

Consumer-price index data for January are due Wednesday.

Moves from the White House and Congress will remain a lurking complication, however. A cluster of potential policies, from tax cuts to tariffs and deportations, could all prove inflationary, many economists believe. If those impulses start showing up in the price data, the Fed will have to try to determine whether the effects are temporary or permanent before responding.

"Generally, tariffs are going to be inflationary," said Michael Reid, chief economist at RBC Capital Markets. Goods prices excluding food and energy costs have brought some of the best news on inflation in recent months, but that is where tariffs would hurt the most, he noted.

Changes in immigration policies that squeeze the workforce could add to cost pressures more broadly.

"Layer on the immigration story, and that's probably a concern," Reid said.

Write to Matt Grossman at matt.grossman@wsj.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250207009330:0/)
