---
title: "STAAR Surgical Reports Fourth Quarter and Fiscal Year 2024 Results"
date: "2025-02-12 05:01:00"
summary: "(21:01 GMT) *Staar Surgical 4Q Loss/Shr 69c &gt;STAA(21:01 GMT) *Staar Surgical 4Q Loss $34.2M &gt;STAA(21:01 GMT) *Staar Surgical 4Q Sales $49M &gt;STAA(21:01 GMT) Press Release: STAAR Surgical Reports Fourth Quarter and Fiscal Year 2024 ResultsSTAAR Surgical Reports Fourth Quarter and Fiscal Year 2024 ResultsNet Sales of $313.9 Million and ICL..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

**(21:01 GMT)** \*Staar Surgical 4Q Loss/Shr 69c >STAA  
**(21:01 GMT)** \*Staar Surgical 4Q Loss $34.2M >STAA  
**(21:01 GMT)** \*Staar Surgical 4Q Sales $49M >STAA  
**(21:01 GMT)** Press Release: STAAR Surgical Reports Fourth Quarter and Fiscal Year 2024 Results

STAAR Surgical Reports Fourth Quarter and Fiscal Year 2024 Results

Net Sales of $313.9 Million and ICL Sales of $312.5 Million for Fiscal 2024 Impacted by Weak China Macroeconomic Conditions

ICL Sales Ex. China Up 17% in Fourth Quarter and 13% in Fiscal 2024

Introduces Outlook for Fiscal 2025

Earnings Conference Call and Webcast Today at 5:00 p.m. Eastern

LAKE FOREST, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--February 11, 2025--

STAAR Surgical Company , the global leader in phakic IOLs with the EVO family of Implantable Collamer(R) Lenses (EVO ICL(TM)) for vision correction, today reported results for the fourth quarter and fiscal year ended December 27, 2024. The Company moved up its earnings announcement and will hold a conference call and webcast today at 5:00 p.m. Eastern to discuss its financial results, operational progress and fiscal 2025 outlook.

Fourth Quarter 2024 Overview

* Net sales of $49.0 million
* ICL sales of $46.9 million, including China ICL sales of $7.5 million
* ICL sales Ex. China of $39.5 million, up 17% from prior year quarter

Fiscal Year 2024 Overview

* Net sales of $313.9 million
* ICL sales of $312.5 million, including China ICL sales of $161.0 million
* ICL sales Ex. China of $151.6 million, up 13% from prior year
* Gross margin at 76.3% vs. 78.4% year ago
* Net loss of $(20.2) million vs. Net income of $21.3 million year ago
* Net loss per share of $(0.41) vs. Earnings per share of $0.43 year ago
* Adjusted EBITDA of $23.2 million or $0.47 per share as compared to $56.8 million or $1.15 per share year ago
* Cash, cash equivalents and investments available for sale ended the year at $230.5 million

"STAAR's fiscal 2024 results reflect fluctuating demand in China, which more than offset the strong performance across our other regions," said Tom Frinzi, Chair of the Board and CEO of STAAR Surgical. "China is the largest market in the world for refractive procedures, and macroeconomic conditions and consumer confidence in China remain weak. While the government stimulus announced in September looked promising, the demand for our cash-pay ICLs deteriorated dramatically as we exited the year. ICL procedure volumes in China improved in January, but we expect overall lower demand in China in fiscal 2025, particularly in the first half. We have been collaborating with our distributors to address elevated inventory levels in China as a result of the challenging demand environment, while at the same time positioning the Company for a rebound once the market recovers."

Mr. Frinzi continued, "Outside of China, we expect to sustain double-digit growth across our global markets in 2025 as demand for our ICL technology continues to outpace the refractive market overall. Myopia is not going away, and we have a unique technology in Collamer with over 30 years of proven clinical outcomes. We have built up a strong balance sheet that provides STAAR with the resiliency to face these macroeconomic challenges, which we believe are transitory. We will continue to make market-building investments in surgeon education, technology and our commercial teams and strategies to drive ICL adoption, while reducing costs in targeted areas to align our operations with the current demand environment. We look forward to supporting our customers and patients around the world, as we drive EVO ICL as the first choice for doctors and patients seeking visual freedom. I want to thank the STAAR team for their efforts to help us build on EVO ICL's market leadership and return the total company to a strong growth trajectory."

Fourth Quarter 2024 Financial Results

Net sales were $49.0 million for the fourth quarter of 2024 compared to $76.3 million in the prior year quarter. The decrease was due to a significant decline in China revenue, driven by worsening trends in overall refractive procedure volumes. ICL sales were $46.9 million for the fourth quarter of 2024 compared to $74.6 million in the prior year quarter. Excluding China, ICL sales were $39.5 million, an increase of 17% as compared to the prior year period. In December 2024, the Company shipped $27.5 million of ICLs to China, for which it did not recognize revenue due to extended payment terms with its distributor. While inventories in China are elevated, the Company determined to keep product in-country in advance of the anticipated demand rebound in the second half of 2025 and to mitigate potential impacts from geopolitical and tariff changes. Based on the extended payment terms, the Company expects to receive full payment, and fully recognize this revenue, by the end of the fiscal quarter ending September 26, 2025.

Gross profit margin for the fourth quarter of 2024 was 64.7% of total net sales compared to the prior year quarter of 79.6% of total net sales. The decrease in gross profit margin was primarily due to the recognition of cost of sales of $3.9 million associated with the $27.5 million in ICLs shipped into China in December, for which the Company did not recognize revenue. Gross profit margin was also negatively impacted by period costs associated with the expansion of the Company's manufacturing capabilities in its Nidau, Switzerland facility, as well as the temporary idling of its U.S. manufacturing facility during the holiday season and for facility upgrades.

Operating expenses for the fourth quarter of 2024 were $59.6 million compared to $50.3 million in the prior year quarter, primarily due to increased investments in commercial operations and innovation. General and administrative expenses were $21.3 million compared to $16.9 million in the prior year quarter, primarily due to increased outside services and facilities costs. Selling and marketing expenses were $26.2 million compared to $22.6 million in the prior year quarter. The increase in selling and marketing expenses was due to increased compensation-related expenses, partially offset by lower marketing, promotional and advertising activities. Research and development expenses were $12.0 million compared to $10.9 million in the prior year quarter, primarily due to increased compensation-related expenses.

Operating loss for the fourth quarter of 2024 was $(27.9) million as compared to operating income of $10.4 million for the fourth quarter of 2023. Net loss for the fourth quarter of 2024 was $(34.2) million or $(0.69) per diluted share compared with net income of $7.8 million or $0.16 per diluted share for the prior year quarter. The year over year decrease in net income was primarily attributable to lower net sales and gross profit.

Fiscal Year 2024 Financial Results

Net sales were $313.9 million for fiscal year 2024 compared to $322.4 million in the prior year. The decrease in net sales was driven largely by the significant decline in China revenue in the fourth quarter of 2024. ICL sales were $312.5 million for fiscal 2024 compared to $319.4 million in the prior year. Excluding China, ICL sales were $151.6 million, an increase of 13% as compared to the prior year.

Gross profit margin for fiscal year 2024 was 76.3% of total net sales compared to 78.4% of total net sales for fiscal year 2023.

Operating expenses for fiscal year 2024 were $252.2 million compared to $224.6 million in the prior year. The 12% increase in operating expense was primarily due to higher general and administrative expense and research and development expenses, both related to higher compensation-related expenses, primarily increased headcount, outside services and facilities costs.

Operating loss for fiscal year 2024 was $(12.6) million compared to operating income of $28.1 million for fiscal year 2023. Net loss for fiscal year 2024 was $(20.2) million or $(0.41) per diluted share compared with net income of $21.3 million or $0.43 per diluted share for the prior year. The year over year decrease in net income was due to lower sales and gross profit, increased operating expense and lower other income.

Cash, cash equivalents and investments available for sale at December 27, 2024, totaled $230.5 million, compared to $232.4 million at the end of the fourth quarter of 2023.

All financial data in this press release and the accompanying tables is unaudited and subject to completion of the Company's audited financial statements. The Company has not yet finalized its tax provision, including its valuation allowance for its deferred tax asset and other potential tax entries. Any adjustments to the tax provision would not impact Adjusted EBITDA as presented in this press release and the accompanying tables. Audited financial information will be included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 27, 2024, which the Company intends to file on or before February 25, 2025. See "Forward-Looking Statements" below.

Outlook

The Company expects the following for fiscal year 2025:

* ICL sales Ex. China of approximately $165 million to $175 million, representing approximately 9% to 15% growth. This range assumes overall refractive procedure volumes in Americas will be down 5%-10%; EMEA will be flat; and APAC Ex. China will be flat.
* China ICL sales of less than $5 million for the first half of 2025, as the Company works through elevated inventory levels against weak in-market refractive procedure demand.
* China ICL sales of approximately $75 million to $125 million in the second half of 2025. This range is dependent on overall refractive procedure volumes in China, which the Company believes could be down 10% at the low end. The high end of this range contemplates a rebound in overall refractive procedure volumes growing 10%.
* Adjusted EBITDA loss of approximately $(30) million per quarter in the first half of 2025 followed by an Adjusted EBITDA gain range of approximately $5 million to $22.5 million per quarter in the second half of 2025, resulting in a full-year fiscal 2025 Adjusted EBITDA loss range of approximately $(50) million to $(15) million and Adjusted EBITDA per diluted share loss range of approximately $(1.00) to $(0.30).1

In fiscal year 2025, the Company will manage its working capital and implement appropriate cost cutting measures in light of the lower revenue forecast. The Company intends to lower production output, decrease capital expenditures, and make targeted reductions to operating expenses, which will impact headcount and discretionary spend.

While the Company's use of cash and cash flows will vary by quarter, the Company expects to end fiscal 2025 with cash, cash equivalents and investments available for sale of approximately $150 million to $175 million.

Based on the Company's outlook for fiscal year 2025, the Company no longer expects to achieve its Vision 2026 Target Sales and Operating Model, originally announced on September 14, 2023.

Earnings Conference Call and Webcast

The Company previously announced that it would report its earnings on February 19, 2025. With today's earnings announcement, the Company has moved up the date of its earnings call. The Company will host an earnings conference call and webcast today, Tuesday, February 11 at 5:00 p.m. Eastern / 2:00 p.m. Pacific to discuss its financial results, operational progress and outlook. To access the webcast please use the following link: https://event.choruscall.com/mediaframe/webcast.html?webcastid=CvWvUh4c

The live webcast, earnings webcast presentation and an archived version of the webcast can be accessed from the investor relations section of the STAAR website at www.staar.com.

(1) Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA per share are non-GAAP financial measures. For further information on non-GAAP financial measures, please refer to the "Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures" section of this press release. Please also refer to the tables at the end of this press release for a reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measure.

Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures

To supplement the Company's financial measures prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), this press release and the accompanying tables include certain non-GAAP financial measures, including Adjusted EBITDA. Management uses these non-GAAP financial measures in its evaluation of Company operating performance and believes investors will find them useful in evaluating the Company's operating performance, including cash flow generation, and in analyzing period-to-period financial performance of core business operations and underlying business trends. Non-GAAP financial measures are in addition to, not a substitute for, or superior to, measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP.

EBITDA is a non-GAAP financial measure, which is calculated by adding interest income and expense, net; provision for income taxes; and depreciation and amortization to net income. In calculating Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA per diluted share, the Company further adjusts for stock-based compensation expense. As stock-based compensation is a non-cash expense that can vary significantly based on the timing, size and nature of awards granted, the Company believes that the exclusion of stock-based compensation expense can assist investors in comparisons of Company operating results with other peer companies because (i) the amount of such expense in any specific period may not directly correlate to the underlying performance of our business operations and (ii) such expense can vary significantly between periods as a result of the timing of grants of new stock-based awards, including inducement grants in connection with hiring. Additionally, the Company believes that excluding stock-based compensation from Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA per diluted share assists management and investors in making meaningful comparisons between the Company's operating performance and the operating performance of other companies that may use different forms of employee compensation or different valuation methodologies for their stock-based compensation. Investors should note that stock-based compensation is a key incentive offered to employees whose efforts contributed to the operating results in the periods presented and are expected to contribute to operating results in future periods. Investors should also note that such expenses will recur in the future.

The Company also presents certain financial information on a constant currency basis, which is intended to exclude the effects of foreign currency fluctuations. The Company conducts a significant part of its activities outside the U.S. It receives sales revenue and pays expenses principally in U.S. dollars, Swiss francs, Japanese yen and euros. The exchange rates between dollars and non-U.S. currencies can fluctuate greatly and can have a significant effect on the Company's results when reported in U.S. dollars. In order to compare the Company's performance from period to period without the effect of currency, the Company will apply the same average exchange rate applicable in the prior period, or the "constant currency" rate to sales or expenses in the current period as well.

In the tables provided below, the Company has included a reconciliation of Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA per diluted share to net income (loss) and net income (loss) per diluted share, the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure, as well as supplemental financial information with net sales expressed in constant currency. The Company has also provided a reconciliation of forward-looking Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA per diluted share to net income (loss) and net income (loss) per diluted share. This represents forward-looking information, and actual results may vary. Please see the risks and assumptions referred to in the Forward-Looking Statements section of this press release.

About STAAR Surgical

STAAR, which has been dedicated solely to ophthalmic surgery for over 40 years, designs, develops, manufactures and markets implantable lenses for the eye. These lenses are intended to provide visual freedom for patients, lessening or eliminating the reliance on glasses or contact lenses. All of these lenses are foldable, which permits the surgeon to insert them through a small incision. STAAR's lens used in refractive surgery is called an Implantable Collamer(R) Lens or "ICL," which includes the EVO ICL(TM) product line. More than 3,000,000 ICLs have been sold to date and STAAR markets these lenses in over 75 countries. To learn more about the ICL go to: EVOICL.com. Headquartered in Lake Forest, CA, the company operates manufacturing and packaging facilities in Aliso Viejo, CA, Monrovia, CA and Nidau, Switzerland. For more information, please visit the Company's website at www.staar.com.

Forward-Looking Statements

This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. We intend such forward-looking statements to be covered by the safe harbor provisions for forward-looking statements contained in Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. All statements in this press release that are not statements of historical fact are forward-looking statements, including statements about any of the following: all financial projections under the caption "Outlook", plans, strategies, and objectives of management for 2025 and beyond or prospects for achieving such plans, expectations for sales, revenue, margin, earnings, expenses, use of cash, cash flows, and any statements of assumptions underlying any of the foregoing, including those relating to expected or future financial performance. In addition, the financial data in this press release and the accompanying tables is unaudited and subject to completion of year-end audit and review procedures. Further, the Company has not yet finalized its tax provision, including its valuation allowance for its deferred tax asset and other potential tax entries. These forward-looking statements are neither promises nor guarantees and involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other important factors that may cause actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from what is expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements, including, but not limited to: our ability to continue our growth and profitability trajectory; our reliance on independent distributors in international markets; a slowdown or disruption to the Chinese economy; global economic conditions; disruptions in our supply chain; fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; international trade disputes (including involving tariffs) and substantial dependence on demand from Asia; changes in effective tax rate or tax laws; any loss of use of our principal manufacturing facility; competition; potential losses due to product liability claims; our exposure to environmental liability; data corruption, cyber-based attacks or network security breaches and/or noncompliance with data protection and privacy regulations; acquisitions of new technologies; climate changes; the willingness of surgeons and patients to adopt a new or improved product and procedure; extensive clinical trials and resources devoted to research and development; compliance with government regulations; the discretion of regulatory agencies to approve or reject existing, new or improved products, or to require additional actions before or after approval, or to take enforcement action; laws pertaining to healthcare fraud and abuse; changes in FDA or international regulations related to product approval; product recalls or failures; and other important factors set forth in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 29, 2023 under the caption "Risk Factors," which is on file with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") and available in the "Investor Information" section of the Company's website under the heading "SEC Filings," as any such factors may be updated from time to time in the Company's other filings with the SEC. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made and, except as may be required under applicable law, the Company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.

We intend to use our website as a means of disclosing material non-public information about the Company and for complying with our disclosure obligations under Regulation FD. Such disclosures will be included on our website in the 'Investor Relations' sections at investors.staar.com. Accordingly, investors should monitor such portion of our website, in addition to following our press releases, SEC filings and public conference calls and webcasts. In addition, you may automatically receive email alerts and other information about the Company when you enroll your email address by visiting the Email Alerts section at investors.staar.com.

```
   
   
Consolidated Balance Sheets   
(in 000's)   
Unaudited   
   
          ASSETS               December 27, 2024     December 29, 2023   
---------------------------   -------------------  ---------------------   
Current assets:   
Cash and cash equivalents      $         144,159    $         183,038   
Investments available for   
 sale                                     86,335               37,688   
Accounts receivable trade,   
 net                                      77,897               94,704   
Inventories, net                          43,305               35,130   
Prepayments, deposits, and   
 other current assets                     16,244               14,709   
                                  --------------       --------------   
   Total current assets                  367,940              365,269   
                                  --------------       --------------   
Investments available for   
 sale                                          -               11,703   
Property, plant, and   
 equipment, net                           84,889               66,835   
Finance lease right-of-use   
 assets, net                                  37                  183   
Operating lease right-of-use   
 assets, net                              36,850               34,387   
Goodwill                                   1,786                1,786   
Deferred income taxes                        788                5,190   
Other assets                              17,234                3,339   
                                  --------------       --------------   
   Total assets                $         509,524    $         488,692   
                                  ==============       ==============   
   
      LIABILITIES AND   
    STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY   
----------------------------   
Current liabilities:   
Accounts payable               $          16,704    $          13,557   
Obligations under finance   
 leases                                       42                  165   
Obligations under operating   
 leases                                    3,894                4,202   
Allowance for sales returns                6,579                6,174   
Other current liabilities                 43,087               40,938   
                                  --------------       --------------   
   Total current liabilities              70,306               65,036   
                                  --------------       --------------   
   
Obligations under finance   
 leases                                        -                   42   
Obligations under operating   
 leases                                   34,807               31,425   
Deferred income taxes                        297                1,077   
Asset retirement obligations                  42                  103   
Pension liability                          6,737                5,055   
                                  --------------       --------------   
   Total liabilities                     112,189              102,738   
                                  --------------       --------------   
   
Stockholders' equity:   
Common stock                                 493                  488   
Additional paid-in capital               471,449              436,947   
Accumulated other   
 comprehensive loss                       (7,031)              (4,113)   
Accumulated deficit                      (67,576)             (47,368)   
                                  --------------       --------------   
   Total stockholders'   
    equity                               397,335              385,954   
                                  --------------       --------------   
   Total liabilities and   
    stockholders' equity       $         509,524    $         488,692   
                                  ==============       ==============   
   
   
   
Consolidated Statements of Income   
(in 000's except for per share data)   
Unaudited   
   
                                               Three Months Ended                                                        Year Ended   
                      --------------------------------------------------------------------  --------------------------------------------------------------------   
                        % of     December     % of     December   Fav (Unfav)                 % of     December     % of     December   Fav (Unfav)   
                        Sales    27, 2024     Sales    29, 2023      Amount         %         Sales    27, 2024     Sales    29, 2023      Amount         %   
                      ---------  ---------  ---------  ---------  ------------  ----------  ---------  ---------  ---------  ---------  ------------  ----------   
Net sales             100.0 %    $ 48,950   100.0%     $  76,273  $(27,323)      (35.8)%    100.0 %    $313,901   100.0 %    $322,415   $ (8,514)       (2.6)%   
   
Cost of sales          35.3 %      17,302    20.4%        15,548    (1,754)      (11.3)%     23.7 %      74,319    21.6 %      69,764     (4,555)       (6.5)%   
                                  -------               --------   -------                              -------               -------    -------   
   
Gross profit           64.7 %      31,648    79.6%        60,725   (29,077)      (47.9)%     76.3 %     239,582    78.4 %     252,651    (13,069)       (5.2)%   
                                  -------               --------   -------                              -------               -------    -------   
   
Selling, general and   
 administrative   
 expenses:   
  General and   
   administrative      43.6 %      21,344    22.1%        16,858    (4,486)      (26.6)%     28.6 %      89,898    22.4 %      72,319    (17,579)      (24.3)%   
  Selling and   
   marketing           53.5 %      26,172    29.6%        22,596    (3,576)      (15.8)%     34.5 %     108,322    33.4 %     107,834       (488)       (0.5)%   
  Research and   
   development         24.6 %      12,042    14.2%        10,866    (1,176)      (10.8)%     17.2 %      53,973    13.8 %      44,401     (9,572)      (21.6)%   
                                  -------               --------   -------                              -------               -------    -------   
    Total selling,   
     general, and   
     administrative   
     expenses         121.7 %      59,558    65.9%        50,320    (9,238)      (18.4)%     80.3 %     252,193    69.6 %     224,554    (27,639)      (12.3)%   
   
Operating income   
 (expense)            (57.0)%     (27,910)   13.7%        10,405   (38,315)     (368.2)%     (4.0)%     (12,611)    8.8 %      28,097    (40,708)     (144.9)%   
                                  -------               --------   -------                              -------               -------    -------   
   
Other income   
 (expense):   
  Interest income,   
   net                  3.2 %       1,553     2.2%         1,699      (146)       (8.6)%      1.9 %       5,911     2.2 %       6,986     (1,075)      (15.4)%   
  Gain (loss) on   
   foreign currency   
   transactions        (8.7)%      (4,260)    1.7%         1,331    (5,591)     (420.1)%     (1.3)%      (3,675)   (0.6)%      (1,909)    (1,766)      (92.5)%   
  Royalty income        0.0 %           -     0.0%             -         -         0.0 %      0.1 %         508     0.0 %          74        434       586.5 %   
  Other income, net     0.6 %         283     0.4%           304       (21)       (6.9)%      0.3 %         815     0.1 %         448        367        81.9 %   
                                  -------               --------   -------                              -------               -------    -------   
    Total other   
     income   
     (expense), net    (4.9)%      (2,424)    4.3%         3,334    (5,758)     (172.7)%      1.0 %       3,559     1.7 %       5,599     (2,040)      (36.4)%   
                                  -------               --------   -------                              -------               -------    -------   
   
Income (loss) before   
 provision for   
 income taxes         (61.9)%     (30,334)   18.0%        13,739   (44,073)     (320.8)%     (3.0)%      (9,052)   10.5 %      33,696    (42,748)     (126.9)%   
   
Provision for income   
 taxes                  8.0 %       3,894     7.8%         5,983     2,089        34.9 %      3.6 %      11,156     3.8 %      12,349      1,193         9.7 %   
                                  -------               --------   -------                              -------               -------    -------   
   
Net income (loss)     (69.9)%     (34,228)   10.2%         7,756   (41,984)     (541.3)%     (6.6)%     (20,208)    6.7 %      21,347    (41,555)     (194.7)%   
                                  =======               ========   =======                              =======               =======    =======   
   
   
Net income (loss)   
 per share - basic                  (0.69)                  0.16                                          (0.41)                 0.44   
                                  =======               ========                                        =======               =======   
Net income (loss)   
 per share -   
 diluted                            (0.69)                  0.16                                          (0.41)                 0.43   
                                  =======               ========                                        =======               =======   
   
Weighted average   
 shares outstanding   
 - basic                           49,266                 48,815                                         49,125                48,523   
                                  =======               ========                                        =======               =======   
Weighted average   
 shares outstanding   
 - diluted                         49,266                 49,242                                         49,125                49,427   
                                  =======               ========                                        =======               =======   
   
   
   
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows   
(in 000's)   
Unaudited   
   
                                 Three Months Ended         Year Ended   
                                --------------------  ----------------------   
                                December   December   December    December   
                                27, 2024   29, 2023   27, 2024    29, 2023   
                                ---------  ---------  ---------  -----------   
Cash flows from operating   
 activities:   
   Net income (loss)            $(34,228)  $  7,756   $(20,208)  $ 21,347   
   Adjustments to reconcile   
    net income (loss) to net   
    cash provided by operating   
    activities:   
      Depreciation of property   
       and equipment               2,375      1,368      6,891      5,111   
      Amortization of   
       long-lived intangibles          -         (2)         -         13   
      Impairment of long-lived   
       intangibles                     -          -          -        154   
      Accretion/Amortization   
       of investments   
       available for sale           (681)      (329)    (1,091)    (2,501)   
      Deferred income taxes        3,543      3,199      3,590      3,264   
      Change in net pension   
       liability                     188       (190)        26       (956)   
      Stock-based compensation   
       expense                     4,669        182     27,210     23,516   
      Change in asset   
       retirement obligation         (77)         2        (53)      (102)   
      Loss on disposal of   
       property and equipment         26         32      1,694         73   
      Provision for sales   
       returns and bad debts      (1,661)    (1,262)       286        663   
      Inventory provision            909        761      2,782      4,851   
   Changes in working capital:   
      Accounts receivable         26,196     17,676     16,493    (32,760)   
      Inventories                 (4,038)    (4,386)   (10,000)   (14,361)   
      Prepayments, deposits   
       and other assets           (3,126)       171    (15,363)    (3,413)   
      Accounts payable             2,106      2,565         75       (701)   
      Other current   
       liabilities                 4,441      4,426      3,393     10,396   
                                 -------    -------    -------    -------   
         Net cash provided by   
          operating   
          activities                 642     31,969     15,725     14,594   
                                 -------    -------    -------    -------   
   
Cash flows from investing   
 activities:   
   Acquisition of property and   
    equipment                     (5,725)    (3,088)   (23,394)   (18,188)   
   Purchase of investments   
    available for sale           (19,046)         1    (80,240)   (52,313)   
   Proceeds from sale or   
    maturity of investments   
    available for sale             5,276     25,489     44,417    144,848   
                                 -------    -------    -------    -------   
         Net provided by (used   
          in) investing   
          activities             (19,495)    22,402    (59,217)    74,347   
                                 -------    -------    -------    -------   
   
Cash flows from financing   
 activities:   
   Repayment of finance lease   
    obligations                      (41)       (40)      (165)      (161)   
   Repurchase of employee   
    common stock for taxes   
    withheld                        (109)        (1)    (1,505)    (2,097)   
   Proceeds from vested   
    restricted stock and   
    exercise of stock options         40        408      7,394      9,673   
                                 -------    -------    -------    -------   
         Net cash provided by   
          (used in) financing   
          activities                (110)       367      5,724      7,415   
                                 -------    -------    -------    -------   
   
Effect of exchange rate   
 changes on cash and cash   
 equivalents                        (881)       868     (1,111)       202   
                                 -------    -------    -------    -------   
   
Increase (decrease) in cash   
 and cash equivalents            (19,844)    55,606    (38,879)    96,558   
Cash and cash equivalents, at   
 beginning of the period         164,003    127,432    183,038     86,480   
                                 -------    -------    -------    -------   
Cash and cash equivalents, at   
 end of the period              $144,159   $183,038   $144,159   $183,038   
                                 =======    =======    =======    =======   
   
   
   
Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measure   
Net Income to Adjusted EBITDA   
(in 000's except for per share data)   
Unaudited   
   
                    2022          Q1-23        Q2-23        Q3-23        Q4-23       2023          Q1-24        Q2-24        Q3-24        Q4-24        2024        2025 Outlook Range(3)   
                   ------      -----------  -----------  -----------  -----------   ------      -----------  -----------  -----------  ------------   -------      ---------------------   
Net income   
 (loss) - (as   
 reported)        $39,665      $ 2,710      $ 6,064      $ 4,817      $ 7,756      $21,347      $(3,339)     $ 7,379      $ 9,980      $(34,228)     $(20,208)     $(78,000) - $(63,000)   
  Provision   
   (benefit) for   
   income taxes     5,887        2,009        2,428        1,929        5,983       12,349        1,128        2,955        3,179         3,894        11,156          $(5,000) - $0   
  Other (income)   
   expense, net    (1,750)      (1,919)         105         (451)      (3,334)      (5,599)         (70)       1,564       (7,477)        2,424        (3,559)              $0   
  Depreciation      4,481        1,113        1,285        1,345        1,368        5,111        1,237        1,522        1,757         2,375         6,891             $10,000   
  (Gain) loss on   
   disposal of   
   property   
   plant and   
   equipment(2)        65            -           24           17           32           73            -           26        1,642            26         1,694               $0   
  Amortization   
   of intangible   
   assets              28            7           10           (2)          (2)          13            -            -            -             -             -               $0   
  Stock-based   
   compensation    20,371        6,065        8,423        8,846          182       23,516        6,339        9,042        7,160         4,669        27,210        $23,000 - $38,000   
                   ------       ------       ------       ------       ------       ------       ------       ------       ------       -------       -------      ---------------------   
Adjusted EBITDA   $68,747      $ 9,985      $18,339      $16,501      $11,985      $56,810      $ 5,295      $22,488      $16,241      $(20,840)     $ 23,184      $(50,000) - $(15,000)   
                   ======       ======       ======       ======       ======       ======       ======       ======       ======       =======       =======      =====================   
    Adjusted   
     EBITDA as a   
     % of   
     Revenue         24.2%        13.6%        19.9%        20.6%        15.7%        17.6%         6.8%        22.7%        18.3%        (42.6)%         7.4%         (21)% - (5)%   
   
Net income   
 (loss) per   
 share, diluted   
 - (as   
 reported)        $  0.80      $  0.05      $  0.12      $  0.10      $  0.16      $  0.43      $ (0.07)     $  0.15      $  0.20      $  (0.69)     $  (0.41)       $(1.56) - $(1.26)   
  Provision   
   (benefit) for   
   income taxes      0.12         0.04         0.05         0.04         0.12         0.25         0.02         0.06         0.06          0.08          0.22         $(0.10) - $0.0   
  Other (income)   
   expense, net     (0.04)       (0.04)           -        (0.01)       (0.07)       (0.11)           -         0.03        (0.15)         0.05         (0.07)             $0.00   
  Depreciation       0.09         0.02         0.03         0.03         0.03         0.10         0.03         0.03         0.04          0.05          0.14              $0.20   
  (Gain) loss on   
   disposal of   
   property   
   plant and   
   equipment            -            -            -            -            -            -            -            -         0.03             -          0.03              $0.00   
  Amortization   
   of intangible   
   assets               -            -            -            -            -            -            -            -            -             -             -              $0.00   
  Stock-based   
   compensation      0.41         0.12         0.17         0.18            -         0.48         0.13         0.18         0.14          0.09          0.55          $0.46 - $0.76   
                   ------       ------       ------       ------       ------       ------       ------       ------       ------       -------       -------      ---------------------   
Adjusted EBITDA   
 per share,   
 diluted(1)       $  1.39      $  0.20      $  0.37      $  0.33      $  0.24      $  1.15      $  0.11      $  0.45      $  0.33      $  (0.42)     $   0.47        $(1.00) - $(0.30)   
                   ======       ======       ======       ======       ======       ======       ======       ======       ======       =======       =======      =====================   
   
Weighted average   
 shares   
 outstanding -   
 Diluted           49,380       49,500       49,516       49,370       49,242       49,427       48,907       49,811       49,731        49,266        49,597             50,000   
   
(1) Adjusted EBITDA per diluted share may not add due to rounding   
(2) The Q3-2024 non cash write-off of $1.6M was related to the former EVO Experience Center   
   
(3) Fiscal year 2025 Outlook line items are approximations   
   
   
   
ICL Sales by Geography   
(in 000's)   
Unaudited   
                               Fiscal Year                                          Three Months Ended   
                 ----------------------------------------  --------------------------------------------------------------------   
ICL Sales by                                               December 29,   March 29,     June 28,    September 27,  December 27,   
Region(5)          2022          2023          2024            2023          2024         2024          2024           2024   
--------------    -------       -------       -------      ------------  ------------  -----------  -------------  ------------   
   
Americas(1)      $ 20,114      $ 22,233      $ 25,670      $ 5,264       $ 6,260       $ 6,794      $ 6,187        $ 6,429   
   
EMEA(2)            36,715        39,318        43,337       10,103        11,299        10,727       10,333         10,978   
   
APAC(3)           212,883       257,876       243,536       59,254        59,592        81,844       72,581         29,519   
   
Global ICL   
 Sales           $269,712      $319,427      $312,543      $74,621       $77,151       $99,365      $89,101        $46,926   
                  =======       =======       =======       ======  ===   ======  ===   ======       ======  ====   ======  ===   
   
Global ICL   
 Sales Growth          27%           18%           (2)%         22%            9%            7%          10%           (37)%   
   
Americas ICL   
 Sales Growth          43%           11%           15%          (8)%          12%           14%          14%            22%   
   
EMEA ICL Sales   
 Growth                (2)%           7%           10%          18%           11%           10%          12%             9%   
   
APAC ICL Sales   
 Growth                32%           21%           (6)%         26%            9%            6%           9%           (50)%   
   
Global ICL Unit   
 Growth                33%           19%           (6)%         19%            2%            3%           6%           (39)%   
   
                               Fiscal Year                                          Three Months Ended   
                 ----------------------------------------  --------------------------------------------------------------------   
ICL Sales by                                               December 29,   March 29,     June 28,    September 27,  December 27,   
Country(4)(5)      2022          2023          2024            2023          2024         2024          2024           2024   
--------------    -------       -------       -------      ------------  ------------  -----------  -------------  ------------   
   
China            $147,967      $185,404      $160,979      $40,813       $38,460       $63,345      $51,719        $ 7,455   
   Growth              38%           25%          (13)%         30%           10%            3%           7%           (82)%   
   
Japan            $ 32,623      $ 36,352      $ 41,409      $ 9,495       $10,227       $ 9,735      $10,490        $10,957   
   Growth              14%           11%           14%          16%           11%           14%          15%            15%   
   
South Korea      $ 17,940      $ 19,853      $ 21,841      $ 4,996       $ 6,725       $ 3,973      $ 5,435        $ 5,708   
   Growth              18%           11%           10%          39%            1%           20%          11%            14%   
   
United States    $ 15,070      $ 17,168      $ 20,475      $ 4,164       $ 5,039       $ 5,541      $ 4,822        $ 5,073   
   Growth              59%           14%           19%          (8)%          15%           25%          16%            22%   
   
ICL Sales Ex   
 China           $121,745      $134,023      $151,564      $33,808       $38,691       $36,020      $37,382        $39,471   
   Growth              15%           10%           13%          14%            9%           13%          14%            17%   
   
Notes:   
---------------   
(1) Americas includes the United States, Canada and Latin American countries   
(2) EMEA includes Spain, Germany, United Kingdom, European, Middle East and Africa Distributors   
   
(3) APAC includes China, Japan, South Korea, India and the rest of Asia Pacific distributors   
   
(4) ICL Sales by country includes countries representing more than 5% of total ICL sales in the most recently completed fiscal   
year   
(5) ICL sales do not include IOL, injector or other sales   
   
   
   
Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measure   
Constant Currency Sales   
(in 000's)   
Unaudited   
   
                  Three Months Ended                         As Reported         Constant Currency   
            -------------------------------             ---------------------  ---------------------   
            December   Effect of   Constant  December   
Sales       27, 2024    Currency   Currency  29, 2023   $ Change    % Change   $ Change    % Change   
            ---------  ----------  --------  ---------  ---------  ----------  ---------  ----------   
ICL         $  46,926  $  136      $ 47,062  $ 74,621   $(27,695)   (37.1)%    $(27,559)   (36.9)%   
Cataract   
 IOL                -       -             -      (156)       156   (100.0)%         156   (100.0)%   
Other           2,024      (3)        2,021     1,808        216     11.9%          213     11.8%   
             --------   -----       -------   -------    -------                -------   
Total   
 Sales      $  48,950  $  133      $ 49,083  $ 76,273   $(27,323)   (35.8)%    $(27,190)   (35.6)%   
             ========   =====       =======   =======    =======                =======   
   
   
                      Year Ended                             As Reported         Constant Currency   
            -------------------------------             ---------------------  ---------------------   
            December   Effect of   Constant  December   
Sales       27, 2024    Currency   Currency  29, 2023   $ Change    % Change   $ Change    % Change   
            ---------  ----------  --------  ---------  ---------  ----------  ---------  ----------   
ICL         $ 312,543  $2,651      $315,194  $319,427   $ (6,884)    (2.2)%    $ (4,233)    (1.3)%   
Cataract   
 IOL                -       -             -     1,139     (1,139)  (100.0)%      (1,139)  (100.0)%   
Other           1,358     108         1,466     1,849       (491)   (26.6)%        (383)   (20.7)%   
             --------   -----       -------   -------    -------                -------   
Total   
 Sales      $ 313,901  $2,759      $316,660  $322,415   $ (8,514)    (2.6)%    $ (5,755)    (1.8)%   
             ========   =====       =======   =======    =======                =======   
   
 
```

View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20250211081928/en/

CONTACT: Investors & Media

Brian Moore

Vice President, Investor Relations and Corporate Development

(626) 303-7902, Ext. 3023

bmoore@staar.com

Investors - Asia

Niko Liu, CFA

Director, Investor Relations and Corporate Development - Asia

+852-6092-5076

nliu@staar.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250211009513:0/)
