---
title: "News Highlights: Top Company News of the Day - Thursday at 9 PM ET"
date: "2025-02-14 10:00:00"
summary: "Meta Platforms Raises Dividend by 5%The Facebook and Instagram parent outlined a plan to return more money to shareholders, increasing its quarterly dividend by 5%, to 52.5 cents.Airbnb Swings to Profit, Plans to Invest in New BusinessesAirbnb expects to make $2.23 billion to $2.27 billion in revenue during the first..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

**Meta Platforms Raises Dividend by 5%**

The Facebook and Instagram parent outlined a plan to return more money to shareholders, increasing its quarterly dividend by 5%, to 52.5 cents.

**Airbnb Swings to Profit, Plans to Invest in New Businesses**

Airbnb expects to make $2.23 billion to $2.27 billion in revenue during the first quarter of 2025, below analysts expectations of $2.29 billion, according to FactSet.

**Roku Stock Soars After Earnings Report**

Roku said that streaming hours on The Roku Channel grew 82% from the previous year.

**Coinbase Stock Jumps on Earnings. People Are Interested in Crypto Again.**

Donald Trump's return to the White House helped the company to blow past analysts' expectations in the fourth quarter.

**Palo Alto Networks' stock is falling. Here's what was missing from earnings.**

The cybersecurity company says its 'platformization' strategy is working, but its latest report lacked oomph on a bookings metric.

**Barclays Faces Probe From U.K. Regulator Over Money-Laundering Controls**

The London-based bank said it is cooperating with the investigation.

**Deere Beats Earnings Estimates, But the Stock Dropped. Here's Why.**

Deere maintains its financial guidance, saying it expects large-equipment sales to decline by 30% in the U.S. in fiscal 2025.

**Molson Coors' focus on pushing premium brands leads to upbeat profit outlook**

Molson Coors saw higher prices helping to offset continued volume declines.

**Condé Nast, McClatchy and Other Publishers Accuse AI Firm Cohere of Copyright Violations**

The lawsuit accuses the Canadian company of sharing versions of entire articles without permission.

**GE HealthCare Stock Rises on Strong Earnings and Outlook**

The medical-imaging company issues solid guidance for 2025.

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250213018142:0/)
