---
title: "TRUMP MIGHT HAVE TO CLEAN UP AFTER MUSK — Barrons.com"
date: "2025-02-08 23:39:00"
summary: "By Matt PetersonNo one seems more excited about Elon Musk's blitz through the federal government than Musk himself. His posts on X, the social-media network he owns, have been a riot of emojis crying with laughter at his opponents' complaints and raising piqued-interest eyebrows at his supporters' suggestions for new..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Matt Peterson

No one seems more excited about Elon Musk's blitz through the federal government than Musk himself. His posts on X, the social-media network he owns, have been a riot of emojis crying with laughter at his opponents' complaints and raising piqued-interest eyebrows at his supporters' suggestions for new cost-cutting targets.

But not everyone is laughing along with Musk, the billionaire businessman, Tesla CEO, and now a special government employee heading the so-called Department of Government Efficiency. And that includes some potential allies who were otherwise on board with the aims of DOGE. Musk's "break government first, ask questions later" approach may backfire, setting back efforts to fix the national debt and other problems he set out to solve. His aura of invincibility could fade quickly as political and legal problems mount and potentially bleed into the Trump administration's popularity.

"In my opinion, DOGE — the concept of DOGE — is much needed and long overdue, but I'm very concerned about how it's going about discharging its responsibilities," says David Walker, who spent a decade under presidents from both parties as U.S. comptroller general, the head of the Government Accountability Office.

DOGE has worked largely in secret and has rapidly changed its structure since the announcement of its creation. It has faced intense criticism and claims that it is provoking a constitutional crisis by taking over Congress' responsibility for spending. Reports by Wired and other outlets that young staff members have some access to the Treasury Department's highly sensitive payment systems have prompted fears that Musk may try to unilaterally end spending he doesn't like.

All of that controversy adds up. "You don't want to fight a two-front war," Walker says. "A two-front war is, you fight over what you're doing and you fight over how you're doing it. Most people don't win two-front wars."

A "two-front war" might be underselling the opposition that Musk has stirred up. He has become a focal point for frustrated progressives who didn't turn out against Trump's 2024 victory the way they did in 2016.

Protesters have picketed sites including the Treasury Department and Office of Personnel Management in Washington, D.C., while federal employee unions have filed lawsuits attempting to block DOGE staff's access to the Treasury payment system.

A federal judge on Saturday issued a temporary restraining order restricting access to the payments system pending court review. The judge limited access to only Treasury civil servants who had passed a background test and had the appropriate security clearance. The judge also ordered anyone who didn't meet those criteria to destroy any data they had downloaded.

Tom Krause, a DOGE-related official, is listed as fiscal assistant secretary, the position in charge of the payments system, on the Treasury's senior staff list. It isn't clear if he has access to the system following the judge's order. The Treasury did not immediately respond to Barron's request for comment.

A Democratic senator has said he would put a "blanket hold" on the Trump administration's State Department nominees until DOGE and the administration reverse their plans to shutter the U.S. Agency for International Development.

That is a fierce reaction to a plan initially written off as yet another do-nothing commission to reduce the deficit. But Musk has acknowledged that his ambitions have changed as he started to work.

What began as an attempt to "do some minor housecleaning" at USAID turned into something more, Musk said on a live-audio event early on Monday morning on X.

"As we dug into USAID, it became apparent that what we have here isn't an apple with a worm in it, but we have actually just a ball of worms," Musk said. "And when there is no apple, you've just got to basically get rid of the whole thing."

The agency, which administers civilian-focused U.S. foreign-aid funds, is now in limbo, with much of its staff placed on leave.

The amount of total savings from Musk and DOGE's efforts isn't clear. A Barron's analysis of DOGE announcements of contracts canceled, building leases terminated, and other cuts found savings of roughly $1.5 billon.

Additional savings may come from plans to close federal agencies such as USAID, but for now many affected employees are on leave and still being paid. Musk has said he believes he can find $1 trillion in cuts within about two years.

Musk's plans weren't nationally popular before he gained the apparent power to unilaterally shut down federal agencies. A Quinnipiac poll in late December found that 53% of voters disapproved of what was then a smaller role he held in the Trump administration. The groundswell against him will make every additional step he wants to pursue more challenging, even if the reaction isn't warranted.

"There is a total communication failure with regard to what's going on right now," said Walker. "What ends up happening is that people get all upset, more upset than they should. People speculate on things that in many cases aren't accurate."

Musk, the world's richest man, can probably survive the public criticism. But unlike at X, which Musk controls entirely, or even Tesla, where he styled himself the company's "technoking," with DOGE Musk has a boss: President Donald Trump, a man famous for his cutthroat political instincts.

While Trump has often praised Musk and DOGE, he has made clear that he's in charge. "Elon can't do and won't do anything without our approval," the president told reporters on Feb. 3.

Signs of tensions emerged on Friday over Marko Elez, a former DOGE staffer who had been granted access to the Treasury payment system. The White House said Elez resigned on Thursday after The Wall Street Journal reported that he appeared to be linked to a social-media account that "advocated racism and eugenics." After the resignation, Musk posted a poll on X asking if he should reinstate Elez.

The White House didn't respond to request for comment about Elez, or to other questions related to DOGE. Musk didn't respond to requests for comment sent through X and Tesla. Elez couldn't be reached.

Republicans are headed for what will probably be difficult midterm elections in 2026, and should Musk start to drag on the party, Trump will face calls to cut him loose.

Both Democrats and Republicans have at times made the mistake of thinking that their party has finally won a permanent majority. U.S. history has proved them wrong every time. Musk appears not to have learned that lesson. He is plowing ahead as if the congressional Democrats — and some Republicans — that he taunts on social media will never again have subpoena power.

"We cannot make public policy in a world where everyone who could be negatively affected gets a veto — politics has to have losers as well as winners," wrote Oxford University political scientist Ben Ansell in his newsletter, Political Calculus. "But blithely smashing through losers for the sake of it is careless, sometimes sociopathic."

No matter his personality, betting against Musk is a risky move — as anyone who has tried to short Tesla stock knows. He has managed to compound his power year after year, even when it seems like he's losing. A financially disastrous takeover of Twitter gave him a media platform that he could put behind his favored politician.

DOGE may have an Elon Musk problem, but it's more than likely that Musk himself will find a way to muddle through this crisis. After all, for Musk, Washington is just another stop on the road to Mars.

Write to Matt Peterson at matt.peterson@dowjones.com

This content was created by Barron's, which is operated by Dow Jones & Co. Barron's is published independently from Dow Jones Newswires and The Wall Street Journal.

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250206011461:0/)
