---
title: "Toronto Stocks Rise Slightly; Canadian Tire Falls on 4Q Miss, Gloomy Consumer Outlook"
date: "2025-02-14 01:39:00"
summary: "By Adriano MarcheseToronto-listed stocks edged forward Thursday in midday trading. Sector performance was mixed, but declines in transportation, material and health-tech stocks were offset mainly by gains in communications, health services and tech services.Canada's S&amp;P/TSX Composite Index rose 0.2% to 25621.66 and the blue-chip S&amp;P/TSX 60 rose by 0.3% to..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Adriano Marchese

Toronto-listed stocks edged forward Thursday in midday trading. Sector performance was mixed, but declines in transportation, material and health-tech stocks were offset mainly by gains in communications, health services and tech services.

Canada's S&P/TSX Composite Index rose 0.2% to 25621.66 and the blue-chip S&P/TSX 60 rose by 0.3% to 1542.05.

Canadian Tire shares fell 4.1% to 151.03 Canadian dollars ($105.55) after the retailer said it expects shaken consumer confidence to erase the optimism of a recovery seen in the last quarter. In its fourth-quarter earnings report, the company's profit and revenue growth both missed expectations, and the company said the looming threat of tariffs have made Canadians cautious on how they spend their money.

Other market movers:

Shares in Telus rose by 2.9% to C$21.47 after the telecom giant reported better-than-expected profit and revenue in the fourth quarter. Telus credited the rise to its technology-solutions segment, TTech, which it said offset a slowdown in mobile subscribers.

Mullen Group shares retreated by 6% to C$13.37 after the logistics company said it is bracing for another year of weak demand after headwinds weighed on earnings in the final quarter of 2024.

Brookfield shares were 1.7% higher at C$85.07 after the company hiked its dividend following growth in operating earnings in the final quarter of last year that topped market expectations.

Write to Adriano Marchese at adriano.marchese@wsj.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250213012790:0-toronto-stocks-rise-slightly-canadian-tire-falls-on-4q-miss-gloomy-consumer-outlook/)
