---
title: "Auto & Transport Roundup: Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-08 05:50:00"
summary: "The latest Market Talks covering the Auto and Transport sector. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires at 4:20 ET, 12:20 ET and 16:50 ET. The market is embracing Bill Ackman's acquired stake in Uber Technologies through Pershing Square, driving gains for both the billionaire's investment fund and the ride-sharing app...."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The latest Market Talks covering the Auto and Transport sector. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires at 4:20 ET, 12:20 ET and 16:50 ET. The market is embracing Bill Ackman's acquired stake in Uber Technologies through Pershing Square, driving gains for both the billionaire's investment fund and the ride-sharing app. Shares of the San Francisco-based company are currently trading up around 9.2% at $76.45, making Ackman's 30.3-million-share position worth $2.32 billion. The executive believes Uber is highly undervalued and says it will share more about its plans for the company shortly. "We believe that Uber is one of the best managed and highest quality businesses in the world. Remarkably, it can still be purchased at a massive discount to its intrinsic value," he said in a post on X.(sabela.ojea@wsj.com; @sabelaojeaguix)

0805 ET - Porsche's guidance implies 2025 EBIT will be 26% below consensus estimates, with the warning mostly related to slow electric-vehicle demand and restructuring costs, Morgan Stanley writes. The company's revenue guidance of 39 billion to 40 billion euros is 1% below consensus. Return on sales guidance of 10%-12% compares to consensus at 14.7%, while the forecast automotive net cash flow margin of 7%-9% compares with consensus at 10%. The company plans extensive measures to improve profitability, including an expanded product pipeline, expansion of personalized products and corporate organization adjustment. The market is expecting a new combustion-engine Macan model in Europe in 2026, and if Porsche decides to launch it, this could support capacity utilization and margins, the bank adds. Shares trade 5.4% lower at 56.62 euros. (dominic.chopping@wsj.com)

0710 ET - Porsche AG's new strategic measures are the premium car maker's last shot to prove it can turn around the business before losing more trust of long-term shareholders, Deutsche Bank analysts write. A volatile adjustment phase had been expected this year, the bank says. This is due to adjusting capacity to offset the China weakness, spending more on combustion engine cars again, increasing the customization share, and changing its leadership. "[Thursday] night, the company made a big step forward toward that; unfortunately also costing more than expected." Summing up all these measures, the company expects additional costs of 800 million euros in 2025 and said it is looking for flattish revenues, while the EBIT margin should decline to 10%-12% against consensus at 14%. Shares trade 5.5% lower at 56.58 euros. (dominic.chopping@wsj.com)

0643 ET - Porsche AG reported a weak outlook, with the mid-point of its 2025 guidance implying consensus earnings-per-share downgrades of around 25%, UBS's Patrick Hummel writes. Revenues are guided at 39 billion-40 billion euros, which is in line with consensus. However, the operating margin corridor is expected at 10%-12% versus consensus of 14.4%. Meanwhile, the automotive net cash flow margin guidance of 7%-9% compares to an 8.8% consensus. UBS says that the recently disclosed executive changes and development of new combustion engine cars are opportunities to get the business back on track. However, this will take time and investments will remain high. "A turnaround of the negative earnings trend is not a matter of just a couple of quarters." Shares trade 5.3% lower at 56.68 euros. (dominic.chopping@wsj.com)

0618 ET - Alstom is well on track to deliver its 8% to 10% margin objective with compound annual earnings growth rate of 25% by fiscal 2027, Deutsche Bank Research analyst Gael de-Bray says. The French train maker's free cash flow generation will also be structurally higher in the future, with 1 billion euros becoming the new normal from fiscal 2028 onward, the analyst says in a research note. "While the stock currently discounts a long-term margin of only 5% to 6%, we see 9% to 10% as a credible margin outcome by 2030, driven by significant industrial rationalization opportunities", de-Bray says. Perceived competition risks from China are overdone as 80% of group revenue should remain relatively well protected, the analyst adds. Shares trade 1.2% higher at 20.08 euros. (nina.kienle@wsj.com)

0553 ET - Wizz Air's unit revenue will likely be supported by demand growth in Eastern Europe, HSBC analyst Ruxandra Haradau-Doeser says in a research note. The International Monetary Fund expects GDP growth in the region to outperform overall European trends, she says. The low-cost airline's plans to add capacity to its network will allow it to improve market awareness, attract more corporate passengers and secure attractive slots at its main airports, Haradau-Doeser says. As capacity and the frequency of flights increase, Wizz Air should be able to lower airport charges, raise asset utilization and crew productivity, the analyst says. Shares trade flat at 14.97 pounds. (pierre.bertrand@wsj.com)

0358 ET - Horizon Robotics, one of BYD's assisted driving chip suppliers, is likely to benefit from the company's adoption of ADAS systems in its mass-market cars, Daiwa analysts write in a note. BYD aims to install the ADAS system in 60% of its car models sold in 2025, they add. Among these models, the majority will come from the Dynasty and Ocean series, priced between CNY100,000 to CNY200,000, they say. In addition to BYD, other major automakers like SAIC, Chery, GAC, Li Auto, Chongqing Changan and Bosch are also using Horizon Robotics' chips, which will further boost the company's sales. Daiwa maintains a buy rating for the stock and raises its target price to HK$6.50 from HK$5.50. Shares last traded at HK$6.04.(jiahui.huang@wsj.com; @ivy\_jiahuihuang)

0304 ET - WeRide may benefit from the adoption of autonomous driving in China and international markets, J.P. Morgan analysts write in a note. The brokerage is optimistic about the overall autonomous driving market in the long term. The total addressable market for global and Chinese autonomous driving was $10 billion and $2 billion, respectively, in 2022. The analysts expect the market sizes are expected to reach $1.745 trillion and $639 billion in 2030, respectively. WeRide is one of the most commercially successful L4 autonomous driving companies globally in terms of commercialization revenue, they note. As a technology leader in the industry and one of the first movers with substantial data and accumulated autonomous driving mileage, the brokerage initiates an overweight rating for the stock with a target price of $21.00. Shares last traded at $15.93. (jiahui.huang@wsj.com; @ivy\_jiahuihuang)

0129 ET - HD Hyundai Mipo, a South Korean medium-range oil tanker maker, may not benefit from U.S. crude output increases, Nomura analyst Eon Hwang writes in a note. The increases won't likely lead to a rise in shipping trade for U.S. refineries, which are already on full utilization, Hwang says. He also says the U.S.-proposed large oceangoing merchant fleet may not need new vessels but can be enrolled with existing ones until 2029. He cuts his 2025 operating-profit forecast for the company by 17%. Nomura downgrades its rating on the stock to neutral from buy and cuts its target price by 14% to KRW120,000. Shares are 4.7% lower at KRW110,200. (kwanwoo.jun@wsj.com)

1723 ET - Risks posed by U.S. tariffs now appear largely priced into auto parts retailer ARB's stock, says Jefferies, upgrading it to hold from underperform. ARB's key factories are in Thailand and its largest market is the U.S. Analyst John Campbell notes the U.S. hasn't threatened tariffs on Thai imports, but Thailand's trade surplus with the U.S. could make it a future target. "This obviously poses a risk for ARB's export efforts into the U.S., which represent 40% of all ARB exports and 20% of our FY 2026 ARB group revenue" estimate, Jefferies says. Still, if tariffs are contained only to Chinese imports to the U.S. then ARB has a chance to expand margins or its market share, the bank adds. (david.winning@wsj.com; @dwinningWSJ)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250207010838:0/)
