---
title: "Health Care Roundup: Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-13 01:20:00"
summary: "The latest Market Talks covering the Health Care sector. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires at 4:20 ET, 12:20 ET and 16:50 ET.0707 ET - After a bruising 2024, CVS shares continue to rebound after the healthcare giant's 4Q results top Wall Street expectations. The company reports revenue up 4%..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The latest Market Talks covering the Health Care sector. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires at 4:20 ET, 12:20 ET and 16:50 ET.

0707 ET - After a bruising 2024, CVS shares continue to rebound after the healthcare giant's 4Q results top Wall Street expectations. The company reports revenue up 4% at $97.7 billion, beating analyst targets. The top line was boosted by growth in CVS's healthcare benefits and pharmacy segments, offset slightly by a decline in its health service segment. Quarterly adjusted earnings of $1.19 a share cleared analyst forecasts for 91 cents a share. The company's earnings guidance for 2025 is in line with current estimates. Shares rise 9% to $59.71 premarket. (dean.seal@wsj.com)

0400 ET - AI developments in drug discovery, diagnostics, patient data analysis and hospital solutions would be a key area for investors to watch in China's healthcare industry, according to Cyrus Ng of Deutsche Bank Research. Investors are eager to understand the application in different industries, including the healthcare and pharmaceutical space, Ng notes. In diagnostics, the usage of AI can automate functions, such as automated image analysis in pathology and cytology, he notes, adding that it can also improve diagnostics efficiency and reduces human errors. Another thing worth monitoring is how some companies plan to develop their own AI platforms to accelerate the drug discovery process, he notes. (tracy.qu@wsj.com)

2122 ET - Vietnam and India appear the most vulnerable to U.S. tariffs, ANZ Research economists say in a report. Vietnam looks the most exposed to higher across-the-board tariffs and could be a priority target if the U.S. focuses on economies that are among the top contributors to its trade deficit, the economists say. Should the U.S. opt for reciprocal tariffs and seek to equalize average tariffs with each trading partner, India stands out as the most vulnerable, followed by Thailand, they say. As for sectors mentioned as potential targets for product-specific U.S. tariffs, Asia is most vulnerable when it comes to semiconductors, pharmaceuticals and cars, the economists add. (ronnie.harui@wsj.com)

1730 ET - CSL's vaccines business is in need of a shot in the arm. UBS says CSL's Seqirus unit missed its 1H revenue forecast by 6% as U.S. demand weakened again. Analyst Laura Sutcliffe thinks elevated flu cases in FY 2025 will drive a recovery in immunization rates the following year, but probably not back to FY 2024 levels. "In general, margins tend to scale with sales in vaccines," UBS says. Government contracts for H5 (bird flu) pandemic readiness are a bright spot. UBS estimates revenue from these contracts at US$150 million in 2H, building on an estimated in US$60 million in 1H. Still, UBS believes the percentage drop in FY 2025 vaccine sales will be in the mid-to-high teens when these contracts are excluded. (david.winning@wsj.com; @dwinningWSJ)

1713 ET - Gilead is poised to build on expanding demand for its HIV products. The company said in its 4Q earnings report that it plans to launch another HIV treatment after sales in the segment climbed 16% in the past quarter and was the primary driver of Gilead's overall sales growth. Higher demand, elevated average realized price and favorably inventory dynamics are making HIV a profitable segment right now, and helping the biopharma firm offset losses from its dwindling Covid product. (katherine.hamilton@wsj.com)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250212010765:0/)
