---
title: "Lyft has 'no obvious answers' for its growth woes, as its stock declines"
date: "2025-02-12 23:35:00"
summary: "By Therese PolettiOne issue for Lyft is a downturn in pricing trendsLyft Inc. predicts a further slowdown in bookings growth this quarter, and one analyst sees \"no obvious answers\" for how the ride-hailing company can get back on a better trajectory.The company forecasts 10% to 14% bookings growth for the..."
categories:
  - "MarketWatch"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "MarketWatch"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Therese Poletti

One issue for Lyft is a downturn in pricing trends

Lyft Inc. predicts a further slowdown in bookings growth this quarter, and one analyst sees "no obvious answers" for how the ride-hailing company can get back on a better trajectory.

The company forecasts 10% to 14% bookings growth for the current quarter, down from 15% growth in the latest quarter and 16% growth in the one before that. One issue for Lyft (LYFT) is a downturn in pricing trends, which numerous analysts keyed in on as they looked to make sense of the path forward.

Read also: Lyft's rides have gotten cheaper. Here's why investors are selling.

"At the end of the year, the environment changed with pricing reverted back to levels not seen since third quarter 2023 (about 4.5% deterioration)," Melius Research analyst Conor Cunningham said in a note to clients. "With pricing on the decline, rides should step up, but in a seasonally low demand period like first quarter, it is much tougher to drive incremental demand." Melius maintained a price target of $16.

When asked about the lower-than-expected bookings forecast on the earnings call, Lyft executives pointed to a drop in Prime Time pricing as a major factor. "The dramatic decreased in Prime Time are huge," said Lyft Chief Executive David Risher. He added, however, that that will be a tailwind for rides, "because that's what riders like is reliable pricing."

Prime Time, which Lyft defines as price increases during times of high demand for its services, is essentially surge pricing.

Lyft's stock is down 7% in morning trading Wednesday.

"The obvious question for gross bookings is where the re-acceleration will come from, but there are no obvious answers, and Lyft's management team did little to assuage our concerns," MoffettNathanson analysts wrote in a note. They maintained a neutral rating and a price target of $15.

Bernstein Research analyst Nikhil Devnani said ride-hailing companies seem to be saying different things, as Lyft highlighted negative pricing trends that began in late December, while Uber Technologies Inc. (UBER) signaled room for modest growth in UberX prices this year.

The downbeat pricing dynamics for Lyft are "helping trip growth," Devnani wrote, as the company saw a rate of expansion in the high teens in January. Still, "investors will question the quality and durability of the growth if it's pricing and incentive-led," Devnani said in a note, while lowering his price target to $15 from $18.

Pricing and the bookings outlook overshadowed the news that Lyft's board has authorized its first share repurchase, with plans to buy back $500 million in shares.

-Therese Poletti

This content was created by MarketWatch, which is operated by Dow Jones & Co. MarketWatch is published independently from Dow Jones Newswires and The Wall Street Journal.

[MarketWatch](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_SN20250212009929:0/)
