---
title: "Market Talk Roundup: Latest on U.S. Politics"
date: "2025-02-12 00:09:00"
summary: "The latest Market Talks covering U.S. politics. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.1108 ET - Tariffs are bringing \"cost and chaos\" to Ford in the immediate term, Chief Executive Jim Farley said during a call. Tariffs on vehicles and components Ford ships into the U.S. from Mexico..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The latest Market Talks covering U.S. politics. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.

1108 ET - Tariffs are bringing "cost and chaos" to Ford in the immediate term, Chief Executive Jim Farley said during a call. Tariffs on vehicles and components Ford ships into the U.S. from Mexico and Canada would be devastating. Meanwhile, competitors in South Korea, Japan and Europe, which bring in millions of vehicles into the U.S., would experience significant windfall from not being subject to tariffs, Farley said. Ford gets about 90% of its steel domestically and isn't worried about aluminium duties, but tariffs could drive up the market price for those goods. (katherine.hamilton@wsj.com)

1055 ET - European natural-gas prices could surge above 70 euros a megawatt hour if the U.S. further extends sanctions on Russian liquefied natural-gas plants, according to analysts at Rabobank. LNG imports accounted for 40% of Europe's supply mix so far this year, with at least 16% of it coming from Russia. "Tighter sanctions on Russian gas/LNG account for the biggest risk premium for European markets," the analysts say. "The promise of higher U.S. LNG deliveries will not change this outlook as these volumes can only change balances after 2026/2027." On the other hand, a peace deal between Russia and Ukraine could enable the restart of some pipeline flows, with an estimated 15-20 billion cubic meters a year flowing to European markets, Rabobank says. (giulia.petroni@wsj.com)

1015 ET - Europe might have to pay higher prices for U.S. liquefied natural gas as a result of increased competition due to trade tariffs, according to Commerzbank Research. "Less LNG could be available to the EU in the future if many countries commit to purchasing U.S. LNG in order to avoid the threat of tariffs," commodity analyst Carsten Fritsch says. "Last week, the Japanese Prime Minister promised that his country would buy more LNG from the U.S. in order to reduce the trade surplus." Meanwhile, U.S. gas supply is tightening, with inventories currently 4% below the five-year average. Still, European natural-gas prices are now high enough to attract LNG deliveries from regions typically serving Asia, boosting supplies to the continent. The benchmark Dutch TTF contract trades at 58 euros a megawatt hour, the highest in two years. (giulia.petroni@wsj.com)

0959 ET - The euro looks set to remain within a relatively tight range against the Canadian dollar as both currencies could come under pressure from President Trump's trade policies, Societe Generale analyst Olivier Korber says in a note. "With global and FX markets focusing strongly on U.S. protectionism, the Canadian dollar and the euro are among the most impacted currencies," he says. Trump has targeted trade with Canada from the outset and plans to impose tariffs on eurozone steel and aluminum imports. That should weigh on both currencies in coming months. SocGen recommends buying a six-month double-no-touch option in EUR/CAD that bets on a range between 1.4450 and 1.5250. EUR/CAD is last at 1.4793, up 0.3% on the day. (renae.dyer@wsj.com)

0943 ET - Base metal prices fall, with LME three-month copper down 1.3% at $9,332.50 a metric ton and LME three-month aluminum down 0.9% at $2,636 a ton. President Trump's latest 25% tariffs on all aluminum imports, effective March 12, is expected to bolster the U.S. Midwest price premium for the metal, Citi analysts say in a note. The market is currently underpricing such a measure, Citi says. No exemptions have been made for any countries or products, though Trump mentioned he is considering an exemption for Australia. Assuming no exemptions are made, the U.S. premium over LME prices is likely to rise to just under 40 cents a pound, Citi says. This will increase all-in aluminum costs for U.S. industries like automotive, construction and packaging, and will disrupt the global aluminum supply chain, Citi adds. (joseph.hoppe@wsj.com)

0932 ET - President Trump's reintroduced Section 232 steel and aluminum tariffs, which cover all "melted and poured" imports of those metals from anywhere in the world, are expected to be met with retaliation from major metal producers like the EU, says ING Economics in a note. "Retaliation is on, and it's going to get nasty," says the firm, adding that when Trump issued metal tariffs during his first term, it didn't help stop the trend of dropping steel and aluminum production within U.S. borders. Primary aluminum, in particular, has been decimated in the U.S. over the past two decades, with now only four smelters left producing roughly 680,000 metric tons of aluminum last year. By comparison, China produced 43 million tons, says ING, citing data from Harbor Intelligence. (kirk.maltais@wsj.com)

0927 ET - With President Trump confirming 25% tariffs on steel and aluminum imports, increased demand is now expected for these metals short-term--with buyers attempting to stockpile ahead of the tariff implementation, says HSBC Global Research in a note. "The increase in prices likely reflects some expectation of a front-loading of inventories ahead of the tariffs actually coming into effect," says the firm. "This essentially means higher near-term demand, as traders and firms look to secure supplies ahead of what is essentially an increase in costs." The metal tariffs from Trump's first term provides some clues on how they may impact markets, the firm says, speculating that with higher prices may come reduced demand and in turn reduced manufacturing employment. (kirk.maltais@wsj.com)

0848 ET - The associated uncertainty of U.S. trade policy under President Trump will have real-world consequences, and nowhere more true than at the Federal Reserve, Capital Economics chief economist Neil Shearing says. The Fed could be facing either a once-in-a-century tariff price shock, or a lot of sound and fury that ultimately signify something far less, he says in a note. Still, the uncertainty is likely enough to keep Fed officials on the sidelines over the coming months. If high tariffs are ultimately imposed then the subsequent rise in inflation will prevent further easing over the remainder of 2025, he says. "Much will depend on the whim of one man." (edward.frankl@wsj.com)

0822 ET - U.S. president Trump's 25% tariffs on steel and aluminum imports "will harm EU producers and strain transatlantic ties," Vladimir Dlouhy, president of industry group Eurochambres, says. "We should be building, not breaking, economic bridges," he says in a statement. Eurochambres represents businesses in the bloc through a network of national European chambers of commerce. (edith.hancock@wsj.com)

0751 ET - American companies in Europe are worried about the European Commission's plan to retaliate to U.S. President Trump's 25% tariffs on foreign steel and aluminium imports, the American Chamber of Commerce to the EU says. "We call on both sides to urgently seek a negotiated solution and avoid a negative spiral of tariffs that would only hurt both economies," it says in a Tuesday statement after Trump announced his decision to impose tariffs on Monday. "U.S. tariffs on EU imports of steel and aluminium will have a wide-reaching and overwhelmingly negative impact on jobs, prosperity and security on both sides of the Atlantic," says the group, which advocates for U.S. businesses in the bloc, adding that the EU is the U.S.'s "most important economic partner" and should be exempt from the tariff regime. (edith.hancock@wsj.com)

0704 ET - Main Street is already beginning to lose its postelection buzz, Pantheon Macroeconomics' Oliver Allen writes in a note to clients. Optimism fell last month among America's small-business owners, according to a survey set out Tuesday, with growing uncertainty casting a shadow over the surge in good feeling that followed Donald Trump's victory in November's elections. "The fading optimism probably at least partly reflects worries about disruption caused by trade policy and perhaps some other aspects of Mr. Trump's platform, such as sharp cuts to immigration," Allen says. (joshua.kirby@wsj.com; @joshualeokirby)

0654 ET - EU laws that force technology giants to moderate content online and shore up users' data privacy unfairly target U.S. companies, U.S. Vice President JD Vance says during the AI Action Summit in Paris. Vance mentions the European Union's Digital Services Act, which obliges companies to moderate platforms for illegal content and tackle misinformation online. "It is one thing to prevent a predator from preying on a child on the internet, quite different to prevent a grown man or woman from accessing an opinion that the government thinks is misinformation," he says. He also notes the bloc's data protection rules force tech companies into paying "endless" legal fees and that "for some, the easiest way to avoid the dilemma has been to simply block EU users in the first place." (edith.hancock@wsj.com)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250211007261:0/)
