---
title: "A Sore Spot in L.A.'s Housing Crisis: Foreign-Owned Homes Sitting Empty — WSJ"
date: "2025-02-10 10:00:00"
summary: "By Rebecca PicciottoSAN MARINO, Calif. — In an upscale Los Angeles suburb around 10 miles from a neighborhood charred by recent wildfires, unscathed seven-figure homes sit on lawns trimmed at precise 90-degree corners. Several are empty, with owners living thousands of miles away in China.For years, wealthy international buyers have..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Rebecca Picciotto

SAN MARINO, Calif. — In an upscale Los Angeles suburb around 10 miles from a neighborhood charred by recent wildfires, unscathed seven-figure homes sit on lawns trimmed at precise 90-degree corners. Several are empty, with owners living thousands of miles away in China.

For years, wealthy international buyers have bought high-end homes in the U.S. as offshore investments. Buyers from China often led the way. Many flocked to Los Angeles, though their appetite started to dry up in 2018 after Beijing implemented new currency controls.

Now, as thousands of homeowners displaced by the Palisades and Eaton fires hunt for new housing, Los Angeles County's vacant homes, once a tolerated quirk of the housing market, are becoming a sore spot.

"Why are there vacant houses here?" asked Ashleigh Rader, a Pasadena real-estate agent with the national brokerage Compass.

Rader was searching for new homes for more than a dozen clients displaced by the fires. "When there's not enough housing, we need homes to be viewed as shelter rather than an asset or an investment strategy," she added.

Plenty of the county's vacant homes have domestic owners. Some inherited estates from relatives and have yet to decide what to do with them. Others live elsewhere in the U.S. but keep their properties off the market to use as second homes.

As home prices declined in the years after the financial crisis, Chinese buyers poured into the U.S. housing market, especially in the San Gabriel Valley area just east of the city of Los Angeles, drawn by its stately homes and proximity to vibrant Chinese immigrant communities.

About 225,000 units, or 6.1%, of Los Angeles County's total housing stock, were vacant at the time the Census Bureau conducted its 2023 American Community Survey. More than 33,000 of the vacant units were used for "seasonal, recreational or occasional use," according to the bureau's survey.

Compared with most of the rest of the U.S., Los Angeles County doesn't have a lot of empty homes. It has a lower vacancy rate than "the vast majority of counties and metros across the U.S.," said Shane Phillips, a housing researcher at the Lewis Center for Regional Policy Studies at the University of California, Los Angeles.

Some families displaced by the fires still see the empty homes as a potential refuge going to waste.

Since losing their Altadena home in the Eaton fire, Joan Nguyen, 39 years old, and her husband, who have two young children, have been trying to find a long-term rental. They have been rejected by three landlords so far, one of whom asked for money "under the table" in addition to more than $16,500 in monthly rent.

After bouncing between hotels and her mother-in-law's spare bedroom, Nguyen and her family are temporarily renting the vacant home of a friend who moved to Rhode Island after the fires. Nguyen said that more homeowners with empty houses should open them up, given the current crisis.

"This is a great moment to make that leap and free up that inventory for the family who's living in a hotel," said Nguyen. "If they're empty, allow families to stay there."

Local officials in Los Angeles County have tried to regulate and tally empty homes for years, citing the safety risks that come when no one is looking after a house.

In 2022, San Marino's City Council proposed a ballot measure to levy a $10,000 tax on vacant commercial and residential properties, but it ultimately failed to pass. Neighborhoods such as San Marino, Arcadia and Temple City require absent homeowners to register their vacant homes, pay a fee and identify a local emergency contact.

Those three towns, along with Pasadena and others in the San Gabriel Valley have become hot spots for foreign investors over the years, said Oscar Wei, the deputy chief economist at the California Association of Realtors. More recently, a majority of those offshore buyers have come from China, Mexico and South Korea, he added.

The foreign buyers might stop by on vacation for a few weeks out of the year. Or their child might live there for a stint while attending an American college — the California Institute of Technology is nearby, for example. Occasionally, they might lease the property out to a renter.

Offshore investment in Los Angeles County's housing market substantially slowed in recent years. Roughly 4.6% of total home sales in Los Angeles County went to international buyers in 2024, down from 10.6% in 2008, according to CAR's annual surveys of real-estate agents.

That slowdown was partly because of surging home prices across the U.S., including California. It was also a result of the Chinese government tightening restrictions on its citizens' ability to move money overseas.

Wei estimated that roughly 150,000 of the region's single-family units are owned by international buyers, based on CAR's surveys. He said roughly 27,000 of those homes could be considered investment properties rather than primary residences.

San Marino Council member Calvin Lo urged owners of empty homes to put them on the market "at least for a situation like" the wildfires.

Janice Lee, a San Marino real-estate agent, said that in the past 40 years that she has worked in the area, roughly a 10th of her transactions have been sold to foreign buyers. She said some of those international buyers have assured her that they plan to live in the homes. Sellers often ask, too.

"I want to give them the benefit of the doubt," Lee said of foreign buyers. "But we really don't want to have another vacant home in our community."

Write to Rebecca Picciotto at Rebecca.Picciotto@wsj.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250209001197:0/)
