---
title: "USDA Raises U.S. Beef Output Estimate — Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-12 01:24:00"
summary: "1224 ET - The USDA raises its estimate for 2025 U.S. beef production to 26.57 billion pounds in its February WASDE report, from 25.79 billion pounds in January. The USDA expects higher cattle placements and slaughter this year. The estimate for steer prices moves up to $201 from $196 per..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

1224 ET - The USDA raises its estimate for 2025 U.S. beef production to 26.57 billion pounds in its February WASDE report, from 25.79 billion pounds in January. The USDA expects higher cattle placements and slaughter this year. The estimate for steer prices moves up to $201 from $196 per hundredweight. Pork output estimate is up slightly to 28.53 billion pounds from 28.51 billion pounds, as higher weights offset an expected slower rate of slaughter, the USDA says. Barrows and gilts price forecast rises to $64 from $63 per hundredweight. Live cattle futures fall 1% and lean hogs rise 0.2%, both softer after WASDE release. (paulo.trevisani@wsj.com; @ptrevisani)

1222 ET - The USDA keeps its estimate of 2024-25 U.S. cotton production unchanged at 14.41 million bales in its February WASDE report. U.S. beginning stocks and exports are also unchanged, while average upland farm price projection is reduced to 63.5 from 65 cents a pound. U.S. ending stocks projection is raised slightly to 4.9 million bales from 4.8 million bales. The global output forecast is raised to 120.46 million bales from 119.45 million bales, with ending stocks of 78.41 million bales, up from 77.91 million bales estimated last month. Cotton futures are up 1.4%, on the CBOT, losing some steam after the report. (paulo.trevisani@wsj.com; @ptrevisani)

1210 ET - Marriott International plans to spend up to $1.1 billion in 2025 on improving its technology, renovating its hotels and adding new rooms. The hotel operator's tech spend will go toward the multi-year transformation of its property management, reservations and loyalty systems, CFO CFO Leeny Oberg says on a call with analysts. About one-third of Marriott's total expenditures this year will go toward renovating its Elegant Hotels portfolio in Barbados, which it expects to sell upon completion, Oberg adds. The company will also spend on new contacts to expand its global portfolio, she says. Analysts surveyed by FactSet were expecting capital expenditures of $506.4 million in 2025. Shares fall 5.4%. (connor.hart@wsj.com)

1158 ET - To estimate the impact of President Trump's new round of tariffs, look back at 2018-2019, AutoNation executives say. The national car dealer says there is potential for tariffs from a new Trump era to impact its volume and margins, and for that tariff impact to show itself in wholesale prices and "ultimately through into retail prices," the company says on an earnings call. "So, the 2018 experience of tariffs was, there was an impact in the marketplace from a price point of view," and that impact was felt one or two years until the costs were absorbed in the system, meaning manufacturers found different ways to mitigate the added costs and keep sales volume up. However, the exec notes, that's right when a global pandemic arrived. Shares fall 2.7%. (emon.reiser@wsj.com; @emonreiser)

1154 ET - Shopify says removing the de minimis trade exemption will harm small businesses, the bread and butter of its clientele. In a call to investors, executives said small and medium businesses are responsible for around two-thirds of all jobs created and said that merchants on the platform alone move billions of dollar across the border, and de minimis is crucial for them. Executives said that they try to help by displaying more information, such as what duties are being collected at checkout, or make it easier for shoppers to buy from their own countries. "We try to protect and empower every business we can but obviously especially we care about the underdogs," they said. (adriano.marchese@wsj.com)

1151 ET - Higher revenue from fees boosted Marriott International's results in 2024, but a repeat isn't likely in 2025. The hotel operator expects gross fees to rise 4% to 6%, or to between $5.4 billion and $5.5 billion, for the year, missing the $5.53 billion that Wall Street expected. CFO Leeny Oberg says on a call with analysts that this figure represents lower credit card fees, which are expected to normalize. Residential branding fees could decline nearly 50%, in part due to a particularly strong 2024, she says, but also because these fees tend to be lumpy and likely won't pick back up until 2026. Foreign exchange is also expected to hurt fee revenue, likely by about $25 million, Oberg says. Shares fall 5.8%. (connor.hart@wsj.com)

1148 ET - SharkNinja's latest C-suite hire is proof of its commitment to brand expansion and business growth, says Jefferies' Randal Konik in a research note. The company known for its blenders, vacuums and other home gadgets names Linus Karlsson as chief creative officer, effective March 3; he most recently served as CCO for IKEA. Konik says the Shark and Ninja brands have become recognizable and ones that consumers now trust across categories, which has allowed them credibility to expand into unexpected areas such as beauty. "We see Karlsson as the latest addition of top-tier talent at SN that will likely drive SharkNinja's innovation flywheel, solidify its market leadership, and ensure sustained competitive advantage going forward," the analyst says. (denny.jacob@wsj.com; @pennedbyden)

1144 ET - Fed Chair Jerome Powell tells a Senate committee that the neutral interest rate has likely risen substantially since before the pandemic. The neutral rate was "clearly very low before the pandemic," he says. "I think it has moved up. And many of my colleagues on the FOMC" think so too," Powell says. The neutral rate is the hypothetical benchmark interest rate that would neither restrain nor boost the economy, and its value informs whether Federal Reserve policy is tight or easy at any given moment. But it is a theoretical concept that cannot be directly observed or known in real time. (matt.grossman@wsj.com, @mattgrossman)

1139 ET - Marriott International CEO Tony Capuano says on a call with analysts that the U.S. and Canada had their best quarterly growth in revenue per available room, or RevPAR, for the year during 4Q, up 4% on higher average daily rates. "The drop in occupancy around November's U.S. election was not as severe as we had anticipated," he says. International RevPAR grew 7% during the recent quarter thanks to higher prices and occupancy. The increase, Capuano says, was led by strong growth in Japan, India and Thailand, in addition to strong leisure demand across Europe. Shares slip 6% as Marriott's outlook underwhelms. (connor.hart@wsj.com)

1134 ET - Consumers are prioritizing their spend on travel. Leisure travel accounts for 44% of Marriott International's global room nights in 4Q, CEO Tony Capuano says on a call with analysts. He adds that leisure was the company's fastest-growing unit, with revenue per available room, or RevPAR, up 6% globally. Business travel is also strong, accounting for about one-third of global room nights during the quarter, he says. Group travel posts its lowest growth quarter of the year, which Capuano attributes to fewer group events in the U.S. around November's election. Shares fall 5.7% as Marrott's outlook underwhelms investors. (connor.hart@wsj.com)

1131 ET - Republican Senator Cynthia Lummis of Wyoming expresses frustration to Fed Chair Jerome Powell over what she describes as the central bank's resistance to congressional oversight. "This is why the American people think there's a deep state," Lummis says. "We always work with the committee to be responsive to your requests," Powell says in response. (matt.grossman@wsj.com)

1123 ET - Seven of Redfin.com's 10 most-viewed home listings in January were in the Bay Area, particularly the East Bay and near San Jose, with two in Seattle's eastside suburbs. One popular listing was in Pacific Palisades, Los Angeles, amid recent wildfires. Nine listings exceed $1 million, five surpass $2 million, far above the U.S. median home price of $430,000. High interest in Silicon Valley and Seattle stems from limited desirable homes, despite improving inventory, and tech workers returning to offices. Amazon's mandate impacted 12,000 Bellevue workers, while Bay Area listings near Tesla and Meta offices also drew attention. These regions, among the most populous and highest-income U.S. metro areas, naturally attract significant viewership. (chris.wack@wsj.com)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250211008237:0/)
