---
title: "Global Energy Roundup: Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-11 18:35:00"
summary: "The latest Market Talks covering Energy markets. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.1035 GMT - U.S. President Trump's trade turmoil could push OPEC and its allies to extend existing production cuts once again, according to Morgan Stanley. Tariffs and counter tariffs have the potential to hit oil-intensive..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The latest Market Talks covering Energy markets. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.

1035 GMT - U.S. President Trump's trade turmoil could push OPEC and its allies to extend existing production cuts once again, according to Morgan Stanley. Tariffs and counter tariffs have the potential to hit oil-intensive sectors of the economy the hardest, hurting global growth and demand for crude. "Adding supply into a period of rising trade tensions is not a compelling prospect, and we suspect that OPEC+ will avoid this," analysts at the U.S. bank say. MS says lower OPEC+ output would lead to a balanced market in the second quarter, despite modest inventory builds in the coming months. The bank trimmed its first-quarter forecasts for Brent crude to $75 a barrel from $77.5 a barrel previously. The international oil benchmark is seen at $75 a barrel in the second quarter and at $72.5 a barrel in the second half of the year. (giulia.petroni@wsj.com)

1017 GMT - Aker Solutions reported fourth quarter results that were in line overall, as sales came in ahead but margins were weighed by losses at legacy projects, RBC Capital Markets analyst Victoria McCulloch writes. The company received its first dividend payment from the One Subsea joint venture of 77 million Norwegian kroner, and ended the year with 2.86 billion kroner of cash having also paid out 10 billion kroner in special dividends during the quarter. Aker Solutions expects full-year revenue in 2025 of between 50 billion and 55 billion kroner with EBITDA margins of 7%-7.5%. That compares to current consensus expectations of 51.7 billion in revenue and 7.3% EBITDA margins. Shares rise 3.4% to 33.80 kroner. (dominic.chopping@wsj.com)

1005 GMT - BP's outlook for early this year is uninspiring, Interactive Investor's Head of Markets Richard Hunter writes. BP expects to report lower upstream production and volumes in the first quarter of 2025. Meanwhile, investors are confused about BP's strategy and wait to see whether its change in direction will result in reduced investment in renewable energy assets, which have proved to be unprofitable, he adds. Shares trade up 0.3% at 466.50 pence. (adam.whittaker@wsj.com)

0956 GMT - European natural-gas prices edge lower in early trade following the previous session's rally. The benchmark Dutch TTF contract is down 1.2% to 57.32 euros a megawatt hour after breaking above 58 euros, the highest level in two years. Colder temperatures and low wind speeds have boosted gas demand in recent weeks, contributing to a sharp decline in inventories. "EU gas inventory utilization is currently at 48.5%, and we might drop as low as low-30s by the end of the winter," analysts at DNB Markets say. Prices are also driven by a slowdown in global LNG supply growth over the past three months, according to the analysts. However, as gas prices rise, some emerging markets in Asia are experiencing lower demand, leaving more LNG available for Europe. (giulia.petroni@wsj.com)

0953 GMT - Kuehne + Nagel will likely tone down its ambitious 2026 targets at its upcoming capital markets day, AlphaValue analyst Kulwinder Rajpal writes. In 2023, the company unveiled plans to grow group EBIT at a compound annual growth rate of 17%-19% between 2019 and 2026, and achieve a conversion rate (EBIT to Gross Profit) of 25%-30% by 2026. Rajpal says consensus never bought into the targets then and doesn't expect the company's fortunes to brighten over the next two years. AlphaValue expects volume growth to remain in the quagmire, and sees marginal headwinds from the abatement of the Red Sea crisis and trade wars. "These factors put the original target well out of sight." Shares rise 0.6% to 205 Swiss francs. (dominic.chopping@wsj.com)

0937 GMT - BP's quarterly profit fell to a four-year low as seasonal weakness, refining margins and maintenance worked dragged on its results, Derren Nathan, head of equity research at Hargreaves Lansdown, writes. Much of this was well trailed in BP's performance update so investors shouldn't be too surprised, he adds. As the British energy giant updates on its strategy later this month, activist investor Elliott Investment Management will be examining the returns profile on BP's assets, he adds. BP's shares trade up 0.3% at 46.64 pounds and are up nearly 20% over the year to date. (adam.whittaker@wsj.com)

0908 GMT - Oil prices extend gains from the previous trading session despite fears that President Trump's trade tariffs might hurt global growth. Brent crude and WTI are both up 1% to $76.67 and $73.07 a barrel, respectively, boosted by signs of tighter supplies and rising geopolitical tensions. According to a Bloomberg report, Russian oil production slipped further below the country's OPEC+ quota in January, easing concerns over an oversupplied market even if the Kremlin still has to make up for past overproduction. Meanwhile, Russia and Ukraine continue to exchange attacks targeting energy infrastructure. Traders now await Fed Chair Jerome Powell's testimony before Congress for cues on future rate policy, as higher rates could slow oil-demand growth. (giulia.petroni@wsj.com)

0819 GMT - BP's forward-looking guidance is a little soft compared with market expectations, RBC Capital Markets analysts Biraj Borkhataria and Adnan Dhanani write. The British energy major expects first-quarter hydrocarbon production to fall by around 90,000 oil equivalent barrels a day due to divestments. However, investors had expected a production increase, they write. BP's 2025 corporate cost guidance of around $1 billion is roughly $200 million higher than consensus, they add. Shares trade up 0.4% at 467 pence. (adam.whittaker@wsj.com)

0653 GMT - The buzz around AI firm DeepSeek is shining the spotlight on companies tied to tech giant ByteDance, Daiwa analysts write in a note. DeepSeek's arrival has fueled sentiment around AI, spilling over into companies that do business with ByteDance, which has its own AI chatbot. That's brought some of the company's major listed suppliers like Accelink Technologies, a maker of optical components and photo-electronic devices, onto investors' radar, the analysts say. GigaDevice Semiconductor, a memory chip provider, is reaping the benefits, as are ByteDance suppliers Shenzhen Woer and Broadex, which respectively specialize in power cables & shrinkable tubes, and electronic components, they add. (jiahui.huang@wsj.com; @ivy\_jiahuihuang)

0645 GMT - U.S. tariffs on steel and aluminum imports will likely have a limited direct impact on Asian countries, analysts at DBS Group research write in a note. While domestic U.S. players will benefit most from the higher prices, the U.S. depends highly on Canada and Mexico, which will suffer the most, they write. The exposure for Chinese steelmakers is negligible, while aluminum products from China accounted for only 3% of U.S. imports of the metal between 2020 and 2023. Indirect impacts include an increased supply of these metals to regional markets avoiding U.S. tariffs and U.S. inflation pressure from higher material prices. (kimberley.kao@wsj.com)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250211002498:0/)
