---
title: "News Highlights: Top Energy News of the Day - Tuesday at 12 AM ET"
date: "2025-02-11 13:15:00"
summary: "Oil prices shake off tariff worries to finish higher after 3 straight weekly declinesOil futures rose Monday, finding support after three straight weekly declines that took crude to its lows of the new year.Elliott Builds Over $2.5 Billion Stake in Phillips 66The activist investor plans to push the oil refiner..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

**Oil prices shake off tariff worries to finish higher after 3 straight weekly declines**

Oil futures rose Monday, finding support after three straight weekly declines that took crude to its lows of the new year.

**Elliott Builds Over $2.5 Billion Stake in Phillips 66**

The activist investor plans to push the oil refiner to consider selling or spinning off its midstream business.

**Elliott Takes Stake in Struggling Oil Giant BP**

The activist hedge fund is encouraging BP to consider more dramatic moves to restore the once venerable company's fortunes.

**Behind the Oil Industry's Biggest Divorce: Chevron Versus California**

The energy giant sank the state's first successful oil well, kicking off a boom that powered California's economy for more than a century. Goodwill has since gone dry.

**Garcia's Take: TPG's Altus Power Bet May Benefit From Time Alone**

Time may be on TPG's side in its acquisition of Altus Power, as more clarity about President Trump's clean-energy policies down the road may lift the value of renewable-power assets depressed by fears he might revoke tax credits for the sector.

**Energy & Utilities Roundup: Market Talk**

Find insight on BP, Hydro One and more in the latest Market Talks covering energy and utilities.

**Utility Probes Connection Between Deadly Eaton Fire, Inactive Power Line**

Southern California Edison is examining the role of an idle transmission line near the area where the fire started.

**Conoco Quarterly Net Income Fell, Expects 2025 Production Growth**

Conoco Phillips said fourth-quarter net income declined alongside energy prices but the oil giant forecast production growth in 2025.

**Power Stocks Had Been on an AI Tear. Then Came DeepSeek.**

The efficiency gains of DeepSeek's AI models startled the power industry, which is set to invest billions in electricity projects.

**Orsted Expects Earnings to Rise This Year**

The renewable-energy company guided for slightly higher earnings this year as some wind and solar farms ramp up, while it works to shore up its balance sheet by cutting its investment program to 2030 by 25%.

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250211000030:0-news-highlights-top-energy-news-of-the-day-tuesday-at-12-am-et/)
