---
title: "Global Equities Roundup: Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-13 07:36:00"
summary: "The latest Market Talks covering Equities. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.1836 ET - AppLovin's Marketing Chief Katie Jansen has tendered her resignation, effective March 14, the company says as it discloses the sale of its gaming business to focus on its advertising segment. Jansen had served..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The latest Market Talks covering Equities. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.

1836 ET - AppLovin's Marketing Chief Katie Jansen has tendered her resignation, effective March 14, the company says as it discloses the sale of its gaming business to focus on its advertising segment. Jansen had served as CMO of the mobile advertising technology company, whose shares have skyrocketed more than sevenfold over the past year. Shares jump 28% to $486.51 after hours. (sabela.ojea@wsj.com; @sabelaojeaguix)

1832 ET - The expansion of AGL Energy's battery portfolio has grabbed the attention of UBS, which thinks it bodes well for rival Origin Energy. Analyst Tom Allen expects batteries to drive consensus upgrades to EPS forecasts from FY 2026. This provides "a strong read-through for Origin Energy, which we believe has the strongest battery portfolio in development across the market," UBS says. Still, the battery rollout means it must invest more. AGL expects to take a final investment decision on 1.4 gigawatts of new battery capacity over the next 18 months. "Despite forecasting materially higher EPS than consensus from FY 2027 we remain neutral rated as we see the potential for higher shareholder returns moderated by the scale of AGL's long-term reinvestment challenge," UBS says. (david.winning@wsj.com; @dwinningWSJ)

1831 ET - Temple & Webster's first-half results contradict the bear thesis that growth and margin are mutually exclusive, RBC analyst Wei-Weng Chen says. The Australian furniture retailer's 1H revenue was 2.4% stronger than anticipated by Chen, who was already bullish on the stock. At the same time, a 4.2% Ebitda margin was well above the company's full-year guidance for 1%-3%. Revenue growth at the start of the June half is down relative to the December half, but Chen points out in a note to clients that it is accelerating and will benefit from a softer prior period. RBC has an outperform rating and A$14.28 target price on the stock, which is up 7.9% at A$15.41. (stuart.condie@wsj.com)

1827 ET - While GrainCorp's initial guidance for FY 2025 earnings disappoints RBC Capital Markets, it could just be acting conservatively. GrainCorp has pointed to FY 2025 Ebitda of A$270 million-A$320 million, missing consensus expectations by some 10%. Still, analyst Owen Birrell says there is a higher degree of market uncertainty than in previous years. Specifically, GrainCorp called out "recent uncertainty in global trade policies" among issues that could influence annual earnings. GrainCorp's shares fall 8.7% in early trade, with a new A$50 million share buyback program offering only limited support.(david.winning@wsj.com; @dwinningWSJ)

1821 ET - Infrastructure specialist Brookfield Asset Management, originally a Canadian firm now based in New York, believes its "domestically oriented" approach would largely shield its investments from a potential trade war between the U.S. and Canada, CEO Bruce Flatt says during an earnings call. "We own infrastructure and real assets that are integrated into...local communities. We're local in every market that we invest in around the world," he says. "Only a small portion of our business focuses on goods and services that travel across borders." The inflation-tied contracts that Brookfield-backed infrastructure operators typically have with users offer another protection, he adds. "The bulk of our business will be largely insulated from any price increases as a result of tariffs, if they are to be implemented." (luis.garcia@wsj.com; @lhvgarcia)

1817 ET - South32's 1H result should be neutral for shares as solid earnings--in line with consensus estimates--and a modest dividend beat are balanced by ongoing cost pressures, says Citi analyst Paul McTaggart. "Meeting earnings expectations a positive offset by raised 2H FY25 unit cost guidance," he says in a note. Citi has a neutral rating and A$3.90 target on the stock. South32 ended Wednesday at A$3.43/share. (rhiannon.hoyle@wsj.com; @RhiannonHoyle)

1724 ET - Canadian timber company West Fraser already has a few things — namely, high mortgage rates that are making housing less affordable — that are weighing on demand for its products such as lumber. Add the threat of tariffs as another layer of uncertainty. CEO Sean McLaren says in conjunction with 4Q earnings that the potential for the Trump administration to impose broad-based tariffs on Canadian exports "adds another element of demand uncertainty for the produce we ship to the U.S. from Canada." West Fraser is rolling with it, however, and says it can be proactive by focusing on improving the costs across its mills and invest to modernize operations "where it makes sense." (paul.ziobro@wsj.com)

1659 ET - Pilgrim's Pride, the second largest chicken company, reported a $236 million profit for 4Q, up from $135 million the prior year as livestock feed costs decline across the meat industry. Pilgrim's sales fell 3.5% to $4.37 billion, missing analyst expectations for the period. Besides lower prices for grain to feed its chickens, Pilgrim's said operational efficiencies also helped it improve its profitability. "While we experienced a positive market environment with lower input costs and strong chicken demand in 2024, we elevated our performance across all regions through a continued focus on controlling what we can control," said CEO Fabio Sandri in an earnings statement. Shares fell 2.5% in aftermarket trading. (patrick.thomas@wsj.com)

1654 ET - Cryptocurrency drove nearly half of Robinhood's transaction-based revenue in 4Q, the online brokerage says. Crypto volumes expanded four-fold and higher crypto valuations boosted total assets under custody. The digital currency's power in Robinhood's financials is something to watch as the regulatory environment eases under the Trump administration and the company continues to make investments in the sector. It added seven new crypto assets in the U.S. last year and agreed to buy the crypto exchange Bitstamp, which is set to be finalized in the first half of 2025. Shares up 13% to $62.99 in after hours trading. (katherine.hamilton@wsj.com)

1626 ET - To-go coffee company Dutch Bros is continuing its hot streak of growth, reporting a 6.9% increase in 4Q same-store sales and a 35% jump in revenue. Adjusted earnings per share and revenue beat analysts' expectations. Dutch Bros said it will expand its mobile ordering test this year, standing to further nip at coffee giant Starbucks's heels. Dutch Bros shares rise 29% in after-hours trading. (heather.haddon@wsj.com; @heatherhaddon)

1624 ET - Australian stock futures suggest that the S&P/ASX 200 could build on its record when the local share market opens. ASX futures are up by less than 0.1% ahead of Thursday's session, pointing to modest early gains despite a soft lead by U.S. equities. Futures were flat ahead of Wednesday's session before the benchmark index spent the whole day in positive territory and rose 0.6% to close at a record. Companies reporting earnings Thursday include Treasury Wine Estates, diversified miner South32, and utility Origin Energy. In the U.S., the DJIA lost 0.5% and the S&P 500 slipped 0.3% as inflation data hit hopes of near-term interest-rate cuts. The Nasdaq Composite was flat. (stuart.condie@wsj.com)

1605 ET - U.S. stocks trade mostly lower after the consumer price index rose 3% in January from a year earlier, likely derailing the prospect for Federal Reserve rate cuts anytime soon. Fed Chair Powell tells congress that "we're not quite there yet," on inflation. CVS Health shares jump 15% after earnings that beat Wall Street's expectations, while Chevron lost 1.6% after saying it plans to cut its workforce up to 20%, as part of an effort to reduce costs. DJIA falls 225 points, or 0.5%, to 44368, the S&P 500 loses 0.3% to 6051 and the Nasdaq posts a slight gains to 19649. (patrick.sullivan@wsj.com)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250212016457:0/)
