---
title: "News Highlights: Top Energy News of the Day - Monday at 4 AM ET"
date: "2025-02-10 17:15:00"
summary: "Elliott Takes Stake in Struggling Oil Giant BPThe activist hedge fund is encouraging BP to consider more dramatic moves to restore the once venerable company's fortunes.Behind the Oil Industry's Biggest Divorce: Chevron Versus CaliforniaThe energy giant sank the state's first successful oil well, kicking off a boom that powered California's..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

**Elliott Takes Stake in Struggling Oil Giant BP**

The activist hedge fund is encouraging BP to consider more dramatic moves to restore the once venerable company's fortunes.

**Behind the Oil Industry's Biggest Divorce: Chevron Versus California**

The energy giant sank the state's first successful oil well, kicking off a boom that powered California's economy for more than a century. Goodwill has since gone dry.

**Crude falls for the week as Trump's historic moves 'write the script' for oil in the short term**

Oil futures climbed Friday from their lowest levels of the year, but tallied a third straight weekly fall amid rising U.S. inventories and worries that the Trump administration's higher tariffs on China will dent economic growth and demand for crude.

**Utility Probes Connection Between Deadly Eaton Fire, Inactive Power Line**

Southern California Edison is examining the role of an idle transmission line near the area where the fire started.

**Conoco Quarterly Net Income Fell, Expects 2025 Production Growth**

Conoco Phillips said fourth-quarter net income declined alongside energy prices but the oil giant forecast production growth in 2025.

**Power Stocks Had Been on an AI Tear. Then Came DeepSeek.**

The efficiency gains of DeepSeek's AI models startled the power industry, which is set to invest billions in electricity projects.

**Orsted Expects Earnings to Rise This Year**

The renewable-energy company guided for slightly higher earnings this year as some wind and solar farms ramp up, while it works to shore up its balance sheet by cutting its investment program to 2030 by 25%.

**Energy & Utilities Roundup: Market Talk**

Find insight on the latest rig count, tariffs on imports of Canadian and Mexican oil, Keyera and AltaGas, and more in the latest Market Talks covering Energy and Utilities.

**U.S. Crude Oil Stockpiles Rise More Than Expected**

U.S. crude oil inventories increased more than expected as production picked up, while the build in gasoline stocks extended to almost three months.

**Orsted Cuts 2030 Investment Program by 25%**

The Danish group energy group said that 2024 Ebitda was in line with expectations, but acknowledged it experienced challenges, especially related to its U.S. offshore wind business.

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250210002164:0-news-highlights-top-energy-news-of-the-day-monday-at-4-am-et/)
