---
title: "Lattice Semiconductor Reports Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2024 Results"
date: "2025-02-11 05:01:00"
summary: "(21:01 GMT) *Lattice Semiconductor 4Q EPS 12c &gt;LSCC(21:01 GMT) *Lattice Semiconductor 4Q Net $16.5M &gt;LSCC(21:01 GMT) *Lattice Semiconductor 4Q Rev $117.4M &gt;LSCC(21:01 GMT) Press Release: Lattice Semiconductor Reports Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2024 ResultsLattice Semiconductor Reports Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2024 ResultsHILLSBORO, Ore.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--February 10, 2025--Lattice Semiconductor Corporation..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

**(21:01 GMT)** \*Lattice Semiconductor 4Q EPS 12c >LSCC  
**(21:01 GMT)** \*Lattice Semiconductor 4Q Net $16.5M >LSCC  
**(21:01 GMT)** \*Lattice Semiconductor 4Q Rev $117.4M >LSCC  
**(21:01 GMT)** Press Release: Lattice Semiconductor Reports Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2024 Results

Lattice Semiconductor Reports Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2024 Results

HILLSBORO, Ore.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--February 10, 2025--

Lattice Semiconductor Corporation , the low power programmable leader, announced financial results today for the fiscal fourth quarter and full year ended December 28, 2024.

Revenue for the fourth quarter of 2024 was $117.4 million, with GAAP gross margin of 61.1%, and GAAP net income of $0.12 per diluted share. On a non-GAAP basis, gross margin was 62.1%, with net income per diluted share of $0.15. Fourth quarter of 2024 gross margin on a non-GAAP basis would have been 68.1%, in line with prior guidance, before the impact of an approximately $7.0 million one-time charge related to our assembly and test operations. The materials were purchased in anticipation of a supply constraint and are no longer expected to be used. GAAP net cash flows from operating activities for the fourth quarter of 2024 was $45.4 million, with GAAP operating cash flow margin of 38.7%, and free cash flow and free cash flow margin of $39.7 million and 33.8%, respectively.

Revenue for the full year 2024 was $509.4 million, with GAAP gross margin of 66.8% and GAAP net income of $0.44 per diluted share. On a non-GAAP basis, gross margin was 67.4%, with net income per diluted share of $0.90. Full year 2024 gross margin on a non-GAAP basis would have been 68.7% before the impact of the above noted one-time charge. GAAP net income and GAAP net income margin for the full year 2024 was $61.1 million and 12%, respectively, with adjusted EBITDA of $162.0 million and a 31.8% adjusted EBITDA margin for the full year 2024.

"We achieved record design wins, significantly reduced operating expenses, and delivered a strong 31.8% adjusted EBITDA margin in 2024," said Ford Tamer, Chief Executive Officer. "Having just come back from sales conferences in North America, APAC and EMEA, I am more confident in our strategy and product roadmap. We are starting to see signs of improvement in the broader market environment as evidenced by our stronger backlog and improved book to bill, which bode well for our business moving forward. I'm excited by the opportunities to closely collaborate with our team, customers and partners from around the world."

Tonya Stevens, Chief Accounting Officer, former Interim Chief Financial Officer, said, "We delivered a strong free cash flow margin of 33.8% for the fourth quarter of 2024 and continued to make significant progress in the realignment of our resources to best support customer demand, and maintain the discipline of our long-term financial model. Our efforts are already beginning to yield results, including reduced operating costs. In the fourth quarter of 2024, we opened a new, state-of-the-art R&D site in Pune, India. We maintained a strong gross margin, continued to invest in our product roadmap, and delivered value to shareholders through our seventeenth consecutive quarter of share repurchases."

Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2024 Highlights:

* Double-Digit New Product Revenue Growth: Revenue of our new products, including Nexus and Avant, grew double-digits in 2024 compared to 2023, with a record total number of design wins.
* Extended Repurchase Program: Lattice's Board of Directors authorized the Company to repurchase up to an additional $100 million of its outstanding common stock through the end of December 2025. The Company has repurchased approximately 6 million shares since the fourth quarter of 2020 thereby reducing dilution by more than 4.3%.
* Extended Avant Portfolio: The Lattice Avant(TM) 30 and Avant(TM) 50 offer new capacity and package options for customers to enable edge optimized and advanced connectivity applications development. These devices provide customers more options for connectivity, functional capacity, and features.
* New Small FPGA Platform: The new Lattice Nexus(TM) 2 small FPGA platform combines connectivity advancements, power and performance optimizations, and leading security and reliability capabilities to meet the growing demand for edge applications requiring efficient processing, bridging, and control capabilities.
* Increased Software Solutions: Lattice launched four new solution stack updates in edge AI with Lattice sensAI(TM), embedded vision with Lattice mVision(TM), factory automation with Lattice Automate(TM), and automotive designs with Lattice Drive(TM). These updates include improved performance with enhanced application-specific features and expanded IP, demo, and reference designs, and follow the introduction earlier this year of an enhanced version of the award-winning Lattice ORAN(TM) solution stack.
* Enhanced FPGA Design Tool: Lattice announced new versions of the award-winning Lattice Radiant(TM) and Lattice Propel(TM) software tools that support the new Lattice Nexus 2 FPGA platform, Lattice Certus-N2 FPGA family, and Lattice Avant devices. New features include RISC-V(R) variants and improved debug, power calculation, and an advanced design automation flow solution with expanded functional safety and reliability capabilities.
* Successful Developers Conference: Over 6,000 registrations, with over 90 technology demonstrations for applications including edge AI, automation and robotics, datacenter security, ADAS, and telecom, with featured customer speakers, including Dell, Ericsson, Microsoft, MKS, SICK, and Teledyne FLIR.
* Over 20 Industry Awards: Lattice received over 20 industry awards during 2024, including the Global Semiconductor Alliance's Most Respected Semiconductor Company for the fifth consecutive year, was recognized as a 2024 Top Workplace in the San Francisco Bay Area by The San Francisco Chronicle, and was named a 2025 BIG Innovation Award winner for Nexus 2.

Selected Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2024 Financial Results and Comparisons (in thousands, except per share data)

```
   
                                        GAAP Financial Results (unaudited)   
              --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------   
               Q4 2024     Q3 2024    Q4 2023     Q/Q       Y/Y      FY 2024    FY 2023     FY/FY   
              ----------  ---------  ---------  --------  --------  ---------  ---------  ----------   
Revenue        $ 117,419  $ 127,091  $ 170,596    (7.6)%   (31.2)%  $ 509,401  $ 737,154     (30.9)%   
Gross Margin                                       (790)     (860)   
 %                 61.1%      69.0%      69.7%       bps       bps      66.8%      69.8%   (300) bps   
R&D Expense   
 %                 32.9%      32.6%      23.3%    30 bps   960 bps      31.3%      21.7%     960 bps   
SG&A Expense   
 %                 25.1%      24.4%      20.3%    70 bps   480 bps      23.0%      18.6%     440 bps   
Operating   
 Expenses       $ 83,962   $ 80,161   $ 75,798      4.7%     10.8%  $ 305,943  $ 302,400        1.2%   
Income   
 (loss) from   
 Operations   $ (12,209)    $ 7,527   $ 43,149  (262.2)%  (128.3)%   $ 34,457  $ 212,270     (83.8)%   
Net Income      $ 16,514    $ 7,190   $ 98,706    129.7%   (83.3)%   $ 61,131  $ 259,061     (76.4)%   
Net Income   
 per Share -   
 Basic            $ 0.12     $ 0.05     $ 0.72    $ 0.07  $ (0.60)     $ 0.44     $ 1.88    $ (1.44)   
Net Income   
 per Share -   
 Diluted          $ 0.12     $ 0.05     $ 0.71    $ 0.07  $ (0.59)     $ 0.44     $ 1.85    $ (1.41)   
Net Income                                                  (4380)   
 Margin            14.1%       5.7%      57.9%   840 bps       bps      12.0%      35.1%  (2310) bps   
Operating   
 Cash Flow                                                   (350)   
 Margin            38.7%      34.6%      42.2%   410 bps       bps      27.7%      36.6%   (890) bps   
 
```

Fourth quarter of 2023 GAAP net income includes an income tax benefit of $0.41 per diluted share associated with a valuation allowance release. Full year 2023 GAAP net income includes an income tax benefit of $0.41 per diluted share associated with a valuation allowance release.

```
   
                                     Non-GAAP* Financial Results (unaudited)   
              -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------   
               Q4 2024    Q3 2024    Q4 2023     Q/Q       Y/Y      FY 2024    FY 2023     FY/FY   
              ---------  ---------  ---------  --------  --------  ---------  ---------  ----------   
Revenue       $ 117,419  $ 127,091  $ 170,596    (7.6)%   (31.2)%  $ 509,401  $ 737,154     (30.9)%   
Gross Margin                                      (690)     (830)   
 %                62.1%      69.0%      70.4%       bps       bps      67.4%      70.4%   (300) bps   
R&D Expense   
 %                26.8%      26.2%      18.7%    60 bps   810 bps      25.6%      17.8%     780 bps   
SG&A Expense   
 %                19.3%      17.4%      13.8%   190 bps   550 bps      17.6%      12.8%     480 bps   
Operating   
 Expenses      $ 52,799   $ 53,875   $ 55,495    (2.0)%    (4.9)%  $ 215,562  $ 225,702      (4.5)%   
Income from   
 Operations    $ 20,097   $ 33,756   $ 64,563   (40.5)%   (68.9)%  $ 127,617  $ 293,580     (56.5)%   
Net Income     $ 20,181   $ 32,544   $ 62,801   (38.0)%   (67.9)%  $ 124,415  $ 280,660     (55.7)%   
Net Income   
 per Share -   
 Basic           $ 0.15     $ 0.24     $ 0.46  $ (0.09)  $ (0.31)     $ 0.90     $ 2.04    $ (1.14)   
Net Income   
 per Share -   
 Diluted         $ 0.15     $ 0.24     $ 0.45  $ (0.09)  $ (0.30)     $ 0.90     $ 2.01    $ (1.11)   
Adjusted   
 EBITDA                                           (870)    (1830)   
 Margin           24.8%      33.5%      43.1%       bps       bps      31.8%      44.0%  (1220) bps   
Free Cash   
 Flow                                                       (620)   
 Margin           33.8%      31.0%      40.0%   280 bps       bps      23.5%      33.8%  (1030) bps   
 
```

GAAP represents U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles. Non-GAAP represents GAAP excluding the impact of certain activities which the Company's management excludes in analyzing the Company's operating results and in understanding trends in the Company's earnings. Additional information relating to these measures is included below in "Non-GAAP Financial Measures." For a reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP results, see accompanying tables "Reconciliation of U.S. GAAP to Non-GAAP Financial Measures."

Business Outlook - First Quarter of 2025:

* Revenue for the first quarter of 2025 is expected to be between $115 million and $125 million.
* Gross margin percentage for the first quarter of 2025 is expected to be 69.0% plus or minus 1% on a non-GAAP basis.
* Total operating expenses for the first quarter of 2025 are expected to be between $50 million and $52 million on a non-GAAP basis.
* Income tax rate for the first quarter of 2025 is expected to be between 5% and 6% on a non-GAAP basis.
* Net income for the first quarter of 2025 is expected to be between $0.20 and $0.24 per share on a non-GAAP basis.

Non-GAAP Financial Measures: In addition to financial measures prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), this earnings release makes reference to non-GAAP financial measures. With respect to the outlook for the first quarter of 2025, certain items that affect calculation of GAAP financial measures for gross margin percentage and total operating expenses are not available on a forward-looking basis because such items cannot be reasonably calculated without unreasonable efforts due to the unpredictability of the amounts and timing of events affecting the items we exclude from non-GAAP financial measures, including certain large and/or unpredictable charges such as stock-based compensation expense; litigation expense outside the ordinary course of business; restructuring; and impairment. Consequently, the Company is unable to calculate the most directly comparable GAAP measure to non-GAAP gross margin percentage or non-GAAP total operating expenses for the Company's first quarter 2025 quarterly guidance.

Investor Conference Call / Webcast Details:

Lattice Semiconductor will review the Company's financial results for the fiscal fourth quarter and full year 2024, and business outlook on Monday, February 10 at 5:00 p.m. Eastern Time. The dial-in number for the live audio call is 1-877-407-3982 or 1-201-493-6780 with conference identification number 13751120. A live webcast of the conference call will also be available on the investor relations section of www.latticesemi.com. The Company's financial guidance will be limited to the comments on its public quarterly earnings call and the public business outlook statements contained in this press release.

Forward-Looking Statements Notice:

This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. These statements involve estimates, assumptions, risks and uncertainties. Any statements about our expectations, beliefs, plans, objectives, assumptions or future events or performance are neither historical facts nor assurances of future performance and may be forward-looking. Such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements relating to our strategy, product roadmap, long-term financial model; market improvement; and the statements under the heading "Business Outlook - First Quarter of 2025." Other forward-looking statements may be indicated by words such as "will," "could," "should," "would," "may," "expect," "plan," "project," "anticipate," "intend," "forecast," "future," "believe," "estimate," "predict," "propose," "potential," "continue" or the negative of these terms or other comparable terminology.

Estimates of future revenue and other financial and operational outcomes are inherently uncertain due to factors such as global economic conditions which may affect customer demand, the cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry, pricing and inflationary pressures, competitive actions, international trade disputes and sanctions, the potential impact of global pandemics, and other significant risks and uncertainties that are beyond our ability to predict or control. Actual gross margin percentage and operating expenses could vary from the estimates on the basis of, among other things, changes in revenue levels, changes in product pricing and mix, changes in wafer, assembly, test and other costs, variations in manufacturing yields, the failure to sustain operational improvements, and the actual amount of compensation charges due to stock price changes. Actual income tax rate and actual net income on a per share basis may differ from our expectations. Actual results may differ materially from our expectations and are subject to risks and uncertainties that relate more broadly to our overall business, including those described in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including Lattice's most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K, especially those under the captions "Risk Factors" and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations", all of which are expressly incorporated herein by reference.

Lattice believes these and other risks and uncertainties could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements. New risk factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible for the Company to predict all risk factors. You should not rely on forward-looking statements because actual results could differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements. In addition, any forward-looking statement applies only as of the date on which it is made. The Company does not intend to and undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of events or circumstances after the date hereof or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events.

Non-GAAP Financial Measures:

Included within this press release and the accompanying tables and notes are certain non-GAAP financial measures that supplement the Company's consolidated financial information prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP, including non-GAAP gross margin, gross margin percentage, R&D expense, SG&A expense, operating expenses, income from operations, other (expense) income, net, income tax expense, net income, net income per share — basic, and net income per share — diluted, adjusted EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA margin, free cash flow, and free cash flow margin. The non-GAAP measures presented exclude charges and adjustments primarily related to stock-based compensation and related payroll tax effects, litigation expense outside the ordinary course of business, amortization of acquired intangible assets, restructuring plans, transformation activities, and other charges, impairments, and the estimated tax effect of these items, non-cash changes in net deferred income taxes, change in tax law and other tax adjustments, and depreciation and other amortization. These charges and adjustments are a result of periodic or non-core operating activities of the Company. The Company describes these non-GAAP financial measures and reconciles them to the most directly comparable GAAP measures in the tables and notes attached to this press release.

The Company's management believes that these non-GAAP financial measures provide an additional and useful way of viewing aspects of our performance that, when viewed in conjunction with our GAAP results, provide a more comprehensive understanding of the various factors and trends affecting our ongoing financial performance and operating results than GAAP measures alone. Management also uses these non-GAAP measures for strategic and business decision-making, internal budgeting, forecasting, and resource allocation processes and believes that investors should have access to similar data. The non-GAAP financial information used by the Company may differ from that used by other companies. These non-GAAP measures are included solely for informational and comparative purposes and are not meant as a substitute for GAAP and should be considered together with the consolidated financial information located in the tables attached to this press release.

About Lattice Semiconductor Corporation:

Lattice Semiconductor is the low power programmable leader. We solve customer problems across the network, from the Edge to the Cloud, in the growing communications, computing, industrial, automotive and consumer markets. Our technology, long-standing relationships, and commitment to world-class support let our customers quickly and easily unleash their innovation to create a smart, secure, and connected world.

For more information about Lattice, please visit www.latticesemi.com. You can also follow us via LinkedIn, X, Facebook, YouTube, WeChat, or Weibo.

```
   
                        Lattice Semiconductor Corporation   
                      Consolidated Statements of Operations   
                      (in thousands, except per share data)   
                                   (unaudited)   
   
                              Three Months Ended                Year Ended   
                       ---------------------------------   --------------------   
                       December    September    December   December    December   
                          28,         28,         30,         28,        30,   
                         2024         2024        2023       2024        2023   
                       ---------   ----------   --------   ---------   --------   
Revenue                $ 117,419   $  127,091   $170,596   $ 509,401   $737,154   
Cost of sales             45,666       39,403     51,649     169,001    222,484   
                        --------    ---------    -------    --------    -------   
     Gross margin         71,753       87,688    118,947     340,400    514,670   
                        --------    ---------    -------    --------    -------   
Operating expenses:   
     Research and   
      development         38,580       41,398     39,787     159,302    159,770   
     Selling,   
      general, and   
      administrative      29,474       30,994     34,661     116,942    137,244   
     Amortization of   
      acquired   
      intangible   
      assets                 870          870        869       3,479      3,478   
     Restructuring         1,109        6,899        481      12,291      1,908   
     Impairment of   
      acquired   
      intangible   
      assets              13,929           --         --      13,929         --   
                        --------    ---------    -------    --------    -------   
          Total   
           operating   
           expenses       83,962       80,161     75,798     305,943    302,400   
                        --------    ---------    -------    --------    -------   
Income (loss) from   
 operations              (12,209)       7,527     43,149      34,457    212,270   
Interest income   
 (expense), net              772          936      1,453       3,948      2,041   
Other income   
 (expense), net           (2,135)        (249)       802      (2,176)       545   
                        --------    ---------    -------    --------    -------   
     Income (loss)   
      before income   
      taxes              (13,572)       8,214     45,404      36,229    214,856   
Income tax (benefit)   
 expense                 (30,086)       1,024    (53,302)    (24,902)   (44,205)   
                        --------    ---------    -------    --------    -------   
     Net income        $  16,514   $    7,190   $ 98,706   $  61,131   $259,061   
                        ========    =========    =======    ========    =======   
   
Net income per   
share:   
     Basic             $    0.12   $     0.05   $   0.72   $    0.44   $   1.88   
                        ========    =========    =======    ========    =======   
     Diluted           $    0.12   $     0.05   $   0.71   $    0.44   $   1.85   
                        ========    =========    =======    ========    =======   
   
Shares used in per   
share calculations:   
     Basic               137,861      137,709    137,686     137,623    137,694   
                        ========    =========    =======    ========    =======   
     Diluted             138,322      137,894    139,114     138,322    139,790   
                        ========    =========    =======    ========    =======   
   
   
                   Lattice Semiconductor Corporation   
                 Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets   
                             (in thousands)   
                              (unaudited)   
   
                                         December 28,    December 30,   
                                             2024            2023   
                                        --------------  --------------   
               Assets   
Current assets:   
     Cash and cash equivalents          $      136,291  $      128,317   
     Accounts receivable, net                   81,060         104,373   
     Inventories, net                          103,410          98,826   
     Other current assets                       44,073          36,430   
                                            ----------      ----------   
          Total current assets                 364,834         367,946   
   
Property and equipment, net                     52,988          49,546   
Operating lease right-of-use assets             13,870          14,487   
Intangible assets, net                           4,587          20,974   
Goodwill                                       315,358         315,358   
Deferred income taxes                           66,980          57,762   
Other long-term assets                          25,286          14,821   
                                            ----------      ----------   
                                        $      843,903  $      840,894   
                                            ==========      ==========   
   
Liabilities and Stockholders' Equity   
Current liabilities:   
     Accounts payable                   $       36,828  $       34,487   
     Accrued liabilities                        45,638          36,048   
     Accrued payroll obligations                17,156          26,865   
                                            ----------      ----------   
          Total current liabilities             99,622          97,400   
   
Long-term operating lease liabilities,   
 net of current portion                          9,433          10,739   
Other long-term liabilities                     23,916          40,735   
                                            ----------      ----------   
     Total liabilities                         132,971         148,874   
   
Stockholders' equity                           710,932         692,020   
                                            ----------      ----------   
                                        $      843,903  $      840,894   
                                            ==========      ==========   
   
   
                   Lattice Semiconductor Corporation   
            Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows   
                             (in thousands)   
                              (unaudited)   
   
                                                Year Ended   
                                      -------------------------------   
                                       December 28,     December 30,   
                                           2024             2023   
                                      --------------   --------------   
Cash flows from operating   
activities:   
     Net income                       $       61,131   $      259,061   
     Adjustments to reconcile net   
     income to net cash provided by   
     (used in) operating   
     activities:   
          Stock-based compensation   
           expense                            52,985           70,197   
          Depreciation and   
           amortization                       38,737           34,432   
          Change in deferred income   
           tax provision                     (12,060)         (58,614)   
          Change in noncurrent taxes   
           payable                           (19,370)             299   
          Impairment of acquired   
          intangible assets                   13,929               --   
          Charge for expiring   
          production materials                 7,019               --   
          Other non-cash adjustments          10,220            7,017   
     Net changes in assets and   
      liabilities                            (11,715)         (42,804)   
                                          ----------       ----------   
          Net cash provided by (used   
           in) operating activities          140,876          269,588   
                                          ----------       ----------   
Cash flows from investing   
activities:   
     Capital expenditures                    (20,985)         (20,098)   
     Other investing activities              (16,708)         (13,152)   
                                          ----------       ----------   
          Net cash provided by (used   
           in) investing activities          (37,693)         (33,250)   
                                          ----------       ----------   
Cash flows from financing   
activities:   
     Repayment of long-term debt                  --         (130,000)   
     Repurchase of common stock              (66,998)         (80,004)   
     Net cash flows related to stock   
      compensation exercises                 (27,462)         (43,713)   
                                          ----------       ----------   
          Net cash provided by (used   
           in) financing activities          (94,460)        (253,717)   
                                          ----------       ----------   
Effect of exchange rate change on   
 cash                                           (749)             (26)   
                                          ----------       ----------   
Net increase (decrease) in cash and   
 cash equivalents                              7,974          (17,405)   
Beginning cash and cash equivalents          128,317          145,722   
                                          ----------       ----------   
Ending cash and cash equivalents      $      136,291   $      128,317   
                                          ==========       ==========   
   
Supplemental disclosure of cash   
flow information and non-cash   
investing and financing   
activities:   
     Interest paid                    $           --   $        3,240   
     Income taxes paid, net of   
      refunds                         $        8,587   $       15,754   
     Operating lease payments         $        9,567   $        8,344   
   
   
                                 Lattice Semiconductor Corporation   
                           Supplemental Historical Financial Information   
                                            (unaudited)   
   
                                  Three Months Ended                         Year Ended   
                       -----------------------------------------      -------------------------   
                       December       September        December       December        December   
                          28,            28,             30,             28,            30,   
                         2024            2024            2023           2024            2023   
                       ---------      ----------      ----------      ---------      ----------   
Balance Sheet   
Information   
     A/R Days Revenue   
      Outstanding   
      (DSO)                   63              66              56   
     Inventory Days   
      (DIO)                  207             242             175   
   
Revenue % (by   
Geography)   
     Asia                     66%             63%             60%            65%             60%   
     Americas                 23%             15%             22%            20%             20%   
     Europe (incl.   
      Africa)                 11%             22%             18%            15%             20%   
   
Revenue % (by End   
Market)   
     Communications   
      and Computing           49%             48%             34%            45%             35%   
     Industrial and   
      Automotive              42%             43%             59%            46%             59%   
     Consumer                  9%              9%              7%             9%              6%   
   
Revenue $M (by End   
Market)   
     Communications   
      and Computing    $    58.0      $     61.0      $     58.7      $   228.1      $    257.6   
     Industrial and   
      Automotive       $    49.2      $     54.2      $     99.8      $   237.0      $    433.5   
     Consumer          $    10.2      $     11.9      $     12.1      $    44.3      $     46.1   
   
Revenue % (by   
Channel)   
     Distribution             84%             95%             82%            89%             87%   
     Direct                   16%              5%             18%            11%             13%   
   
   
                     Lattice Semiconductor Corporation   
         Reconciliation of U.S. GAAP to Non-GAAP Financial Measures   
                   (in thousands, except per share data)   
                                (unaudited)   
   
                            Three Months Ended             Year Ended   
                     --------------------------------  -------------------   
                     December   September    December  December   December   
                        28,        28,         30,        28,       30,   
                       2024        2024        2023      2024       2023   
                     ---------  ----------   --------  ---------  --------   
Gross Margin Reconciliation   
   GAAP Gross   
    margin           $  71,753  $   87,688   $118,947  $ 340,400  $514,670   
     Stock-based   
      compensation   
      - gross   
      margin (1)         1,143         (57)     1,111      2,779     4,612   
                      --------   ---------    -------   --------   -------   
   Non-GAAP Gross   
    margin           $  72,896  $   87,631   $120,058  $ 343,179  $519,282   
   
   
Gross Margin % Reconciliation   
   GAAP Gross margin   
    %                 61.1%     69.0%     69.7%     66.8%     69.8%   
     Stock-based   
      compensation -   
      gross margin   
      (1)              1.0%      0.0%      0.7%      0.6%      0.6%   
                      ----      ----      ----      ----      ----   
   Non-GAAP Gross   
    margin %          62.1%     69.0%     70.4%     67.4%     70.4%   
   
   
Research and Development Expense % (R&D Expense %) Reconciliation   
   GAAP R&D Expense   
    %                 32.9%     32.6%     23.3%     31.3%     21.7%   
     Stock-based   
      compensation -   
      R&D (1)         (6.1)%    (6.4)%    (4.6)%    (5.7)%    (3.9)%   
                      ----      ----      ----      ----      ----   
   Non-GAAP R&D   
    Expense %         26.8%     26.2%     18.7%     25.6%     17.8%   
   
   
Selling, General, and Administrative Expense % (SG&A Expense %)   
Reconciliation   
   GAAP SG&A Expense   
    %                 25.1%     24.4%     20.3%     23.0%     18.6%   
     Stock-based   
      compensation -   
      SG&A (1)        (5.6)%    (6.9)%    (5.3)%    (4.4)%    (5.3)%   
     Litigation   
      expense (2)     (0.2)%    (0.1)%    (1.2)%    (1.0)%    (0.5)%   
                      ----      ----      ----      ----      ----   
   Non-GAAP SG&A   
    Expense %         19.3%     17.4%     13.8%     17.6%     12.8%   
   
   
Operating Expenses Reconciliation   
   GAAP Operating   
    expenses           $ 83,962   $ 80,161   $ 75,798   $305,943   $302,400   
     Stock-based   
      compensation -   
      operations (1)    (13,712)   (16,767)   (16,811)   (50,939)   (67,340)   
     Litigation   
      expense (2)          (181)      (170)    (2,098)    (5,248)    (3,928)   
     Amortization of   
      acquired   
      intangible   
      assets               (870)      (870)      (869)    (3,479)    (3,478)   
     Restructuring,   
      transformation,   
      and other (3)      (2,471)    (8,479)      (525)   (16,786)    (1,952)   
     Impairment of   
      acquired   
      intangible   
      assets            (13,929)        --         --    (13,929)        --   
                        -------    -------    -------    -------    -------   
   Non-GAAP Operating   
    expenses           $ 52,799   $ 53,875   $ 55,495   $215,562   $225,702   
   
   
(1)    The non-GAAP adjustments for Stock-based compensation include related   
       tax expenses.   
(2)    Legal expenses associated with the defense of claims that are outside   
       the ordinary course of business that were brought against the Company   
       by Steven A.W. De Jaray, Perienne De Jaray and Darrell R. Oswalde.   
(3)    Restructuring, transformation, and other includes transformation   
       charges of approximately $1.0 million, $0.9 million, and $2.8 million   
       for Q4, Q3 and YTD 2024, respectively.   
   
   
                        Lattice Semiconductor Corporation   
           Reconciliation of U.S. GAAP to Non-GAAP Financial Measures   
                      (in thousands, except per share data)   
                                   (unaudited)   
   
                               Three Months Ended               Year Ended   
                       -----------------------------------  -------------------   
                       December    September     December   December   December   
                          28,         28,          30,         28,       30,   
                         2024         2024         2023       2024       2023   
                       ---------   ----------   ----------  ---------  --------   
Income from Operations Reconciliation   
   GAAP Income (loss)   
    from operations    $ (12,209)  $    7,527   $   43,149  $  34,457  $212,270   
     Stock-based   
      compensation -   
      gross margin   
      (1)                  1,143          (57)       1,111      2,779     4,612   
     Stock-based   
      compensation -   
      operations (1)      13,712       16,767       16,811     50,939    67,340   
     Litigation   
      expense (2)            181          170        2,098      5,248     3,928   
     Amortization of   
      acquired   
      intangible   
      assets                 870          870          869      3,479     3,478   
     Restructuring,   
      transformation,   
      and other (3)        2,471        8,479          525     16,786     1,952   
     Impairment of   
      acquired   
      intangible   
      assets              13,929           --           --     13,929        --   
                        --------    ---------       ------   --------   -------   
   Non-GAAP Income   
    from operations    $  20,097   $   33,756   $   64,563  $ 127,617  $293,580   
   
   
Income from Operations % Reconciliation   
   GAAP Income   
    (loss) from   
    operations %     (10.4)%     5.9%     25.3%      6.8%     28.8%   
     Cumulative   
      effect of   
      non-GAAP   
      Gross Margin   
      and Operating   
      adjustments     27.5%     20.7%     12.5%     18.3%     11.0%   
                     -----      ----      ----      ----      ----   
   Non-GAAP Income   
    from operations   
    %                 17.1%     26.6%     37.8%     25.1%     39.8%   
   
   
Other Income (Expense) Reconciliation   
   GAAP Other income   
    (expense), net     $(2,135)  $(249)  $802  $(2,176)  $545   
     Write-off of   
      nonrecoverable   
      cost-basis   
      investment         2,023      --     --    2,023     --   
                        ------    ----    ---   ------    ---   
   Non-GAAP Other   
    income (expense),   
    net                $  (112)  $(249)  $802  $  (153)  $545   
   
   
Income Tax (Benefit) Expense Reconciliation   
   GAAP Income tax   
    (benefit)   
    expense         $(30,086)  $ 1,024   $(53,302)  $(24,902)  $(44,205)   
     Estimated tax   
      effect of   
      non-GAAP   
      adjustments      4,735     1,695      1,170     16,416      5,679   
     Non-cash   
      changes in   
      net deferred   
      income taxes   
      (4)             25,757       402     56,913     22,315     56,913   
     Change in tax   
      law (5)            170    (1,222)      (764)    (6,832)    (2,881)   
                     -------    ------    -------    -------    -------   
   Non-GAAP Income   
    tax expense     $    576   $ 1,899   $  4,017   $  6,997   $ 15,506   
   
   
(1)    The non-GAAP adjustments for Stock-based compensation include related   
       tax expenses.   
(2)    Legal expenses associated with the defense of claims that are outside   
       the ordinary course of business that were brought against the Company   
       by Steven A.W. De Jaray, Perienne De Jaray and Darrell R. Oswalde.   
(3)    Restructuring, transformation, and other includes transformation   
       charges of approximately $1.0 million, $0.9 million, and $2.8 million   
       for Q4, Q3 and YTD 2024, respectively.   
(4)    Non-cash changes in net deferred income taxes associated with the   
       release of the valuation allowance against $56.9 million of our U.S.   
       deferred tax assets in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2023 and $27.7   
       million of certain tax matters related to prior fiscal periods in the   
       fourth quarter of fiscal 2024.   
(5)    Adjustments for Change in tax law reflect an increase in our provision   
       for U.S. tax on foreign operations resulting from The 2017 Tax Cuts and   
       Jobs Act and is related to the capitalization and subsequent   
       amortization of R&D costs for tax purposes.   
   
   
                        Lattice Semiconductor Corporation   
            Reconciliation of U.S. GAAP to Non-GAAP Financial Measures   
                      (in thousands, except per share data)   
                                   (unaudited)   
   
                              Three Months Ended                Year Ended   
                       ---------------------------------   --------------------   
                       December    September    December   December    December   
                          28,         28,         30,         28,        30,   
                         2024         2024        2023       2024        2023   
                       ---------   ----------   --------   ---------   --------   
Net Income Reconciliation   
   GAAP Net income     $  16,514   $    7,190   $ 98,706   $  61,131   $259,061   
     Stock-based   
      compensation -   
      gross margin   
      (1)                  1,143          (57)     1,111       2,779      4,612   
     Stock-based   
      compensation -   
      operations (1)      13,712       16,767     16,811      50,939     67,340   
     Litigation   
      expense (2)            181          170      2,098       5,248      3,928   
     Amortization of   
      acquired   
      intangible   
      assets                 870          870        869       3,479      3,478   
     Restructuring,   
      transformation,   
      and other (3)        2,471        8,479        525      16,786      1,952   
     Impairment of   
      acquired   
      intangible   
      assets              13,929           --         --      13,929         --   
     Write-off of   
      nonrecoverable   
      cost-basis   
      investment           2,023           --         --       2,023         --   
     Estimated tax   
      effect of   
      non-GAAP   
      adjustments         (4,735)      (1,695)    (1,170)    (16,416)    (5,679)   
     Non-cash changes   
      in net deferred   
      income taxes   
      (4)                (25,757)        (402)   (56,913)    (22,315)   (56,913)   
     Change in tax   
      law (5)               (170)       1,222        764       6,832      2,881   
                        --------    ---------    -------    --------    -------   
   Non-GAAP Net   
    income             $  20,181   $   32,544   $ 62,801   $ 124,415   $280,660   
   
   
Net Income Per Share Reconciliation   
   GAAP Net income   
    per share -   
    basic           $   0.12  $   0.05  $   0.72   $   0.44  $   1.88   
     Cumulative   
      effect of   
      Non-GAAP   
      adjustments       0.03      0.19     (0.26)      0.46      0.16   
                     -------   -------   -------    -------   -------   
   Non-GAAP Net   
    income per   
    share - basic   $   0.15  $   0.24  $   0.46   $   0.90  $   2.04   
   
   GAAP Net income   
    per share -   
    diluted         $   0.12  $   0.05  $   0.71   $   0.44  $   1.85   
     Cumulative   
      effect of   
      Non-GAAP   
      adjustments       0.03      0.19     (0.26)      0.46      0.16   
                     -------   -------   -------    -------   -------   
   Non-GAAP Net   
    income per   
    share -   
    diluted         $   0.15  $   0.24  $   0.45   $   0.90  $   2.01   
   
   Shares used in   
   per share   
   calculations:   
     Basic           137,861   137,709   137,686    137,623   137,694   
     Diluted         138,322   137,894   139,114    138,322   139,790   
   
   
(1)    The non-GAAP adjustments for Stock-based compensation include related   
       tax expenses.   
(2)    Legal expenses associated with the defense of claims that are outside   
       the ordinary course of business that were brought against the Company   
       by Steven A.W. De Jaray, Perienne De Jaray and Darrell R. Oswalde.   
(3)    Restructuring, transformation, and other includes transformation   
       charges of approximately $1.0 million, $0.9 million, and $2.8 million   
       for Q4, Q3 and YTD 2024, respectively.   
(4)    Non-cash changes in net deferred income taxes associated with the   
       release of the valuation allowance against $56.9 million of our U.S.   
       deferred tax assets in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2023 and $27.7   
       million of certain tax matters related to prior fiscal periods in the   
       fourth quarter of fiscal 2024.   
(5)    Adjustments for Change in tax law reflect an increase in our provision   
       for U.S. tax on foreign operations resulting from The 2017 Tax Cuts and   
       Jobs Act and is related to the capitalization and subsequent   
       amortization of R&D costs for tax purposes.   
   
   
                        Lattice Semiconductor Corporation   
            Reconciliation of U.S. GAAP to Non-GAAP Financial Measures   
                      (in thousands, except per share data)   
                                   (unaudited)   
   
                              Three Months Ended                Year Ended   
                       ---------------------------------   --------------------   
                       December    September    December   December    December   
                          28,         28,         30,         28,        30,   
                         2024         2024        2023       2024        2023   
                       ---------   ----------   --------   ---------   --------   
Reconciliation of Net income to Adjusted EBITDA   
   GAAP Net income     $  16,514   $    7,190   $ 98,706   $  61,131   $259,061   
     Interest   
      (income)   
      expense, net          (772)        (936)    (1,453)     (3,948)    (2,041)   
     Income tax   
      (benefit)   
      expense            (30,086)       1,024    (53,302)    (24,902)   (44,205)   
     Amortization of   
      acquired   
      intangible   
      assets                 870          870        869       3,479      3,478   
     Depreciation and   
      other   
      amortization         9,131        9,036      8,103      34,502     30,562   
     Stock-Based   
      Compensation   
      (1)                 14,855       16,710     17,922      53,718     71,952   
     Litigation   
      expense (2)            181          170      2,098       5,248      3,928   
     Restructuring,   
      transformation,   
      and other (3)        2,471        8,479        525      16,786      1,952   
     Impairment of   
      acquired   
      intangible   
      assets              13,929           --         --      13,929         --   
     Write-off of   
      nonrecoverable   
      cost-basis   
      investment           2,023           --         --       2,023         --   
                        --------    ---------    -------    --------    -------   
   Adjusted EBITDA     $  29,116   $   42,543   $ 73,468   $ 161,966   $324,687   
   
   
Reconciliation of Net income margin to Adjusted EBITDA margin   
   GAAP Net income   
    margin           14.1%      5.7%      57.9%     12.0%     35.1%   
     Cumulative   
      effect of   
      EBITDA   
      adjustments    10.7%     27.8%     (14.8)%    19.8%      8.9%   
                     ----      ----      -----      ----      ----   
   Adjusted EBITDA   
    margin           24.8%     33.5%      43.1%     31.8%     44.0%   
   
   
Reconciliation of GAAP Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities to Free Cash Flow   
   GAAP Net cash   
    provided by   
    operating   
    activities       $45,421      $44,013      $71,970      $140,876      $269,588   
     Operating cash   
      flow margin       38.7%        34.6%        42.2%         27.7%         36.6%   
     Capital   
      expenditures    (5,754)      (4,650)      (3,728)      (20,985)      (20,098)   
                      ------       ------       ------       -------       -------   
   Free cash flow    $39,667      $39,363      $68,242      $119,891      $249,490   
                      ======       ======       ======       =======       =======   
     Free cash flow   
      margin            33.8%        31.0%        40.0%         23.5%         33.8%   
   
   
(1)    The non-GAAP adjustments for Stock-based compensation include related   
       tax expenses.   
(2)    Legal expenses associated with the defense of claims that are outside   
       the ordinary course of business that were brought against the Company   
       by Steven A.W. De Jaray, Perienne De Jaray and Darrell R. Oswalde.   
(3)    Restructuring, transformation, and other includes transformation   
       charges of approximately $1.0 million, $0.9 million, and $2.8 million   
       for Q4, Q3 and YTD 2024, respectively.   
 
```

View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20250210727577/en/

CONTACT: MEDIA:

Sophia Hong

Lattice Semiconductor Corporation

503-268-8786

Sophia.Hong@latticesemi.com

INVESTORS:

Rick Muscha

Lattice Semiconductor Corporation

408-826-6000

Rick.Muscha@latticesemi.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250210009376:0/)
