---
title: "Super Micro's earnings are on deck. Here are the two biggest things to watch."
date: "2025-02-12 01:13:00"
summary: "By Emily BaryInvestors will be focused on margins given competitive pressures in the market for AI servers. They'll also be looking for an update on the company's delayed financial filings.Will Super Micro Computer Inc. have some positive news for investors today?The company is gearing up for a \"business update\" call,..."
categories:
  - "MarketWatch"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "MarketWatch"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Emily Bary

Investors will be focused on margins given competitive pressures in the market for AI servers. They'll also be looking for an update on the company's delayed financial filings.

Will Super Micro Computer Inc. have some positive news for investors today?

The company is gearing up for a "business update" call, which should cover its fiscal second-quarter earnings - and potentially more. The server maker has been caught up in an accounting saga and is nearing the Feb. 25 deadline to submit its delayed annual filing for last fiscal year.

Both issues are worth watching. On the earnings front, Super Micro (SMCI) is dealing with stiff competition in the market for artificial-intelligence servers, a factor that's pressured margins in recent quarters. Super Micro was once one of the hottest plays on the AI trend, but the weakening margins have some investors now thinking AI servers could become more of a commodity.

That makes margins a hot topic for the report. Wedbush's Matt Bryson thinks they could stay under pressure as more players crowd into the market and as chip makers work on system design. But he also said that the company's forecast for a roughly 12% gross margin "likely bakes in some conservatism," since lower-margin large deals might be slower to manifest in the financials. The company might also be benefiting from better-than-anticipated component costs.

Then there's the accounting side of things. Super Micro's stock got slammed last year after a short seller flagged concerns about the company's financials and after the company's auditor resigned. Super Micro ended up delaying its annual filing and a subsequent quarterly one. But the company has maintained that it doesn't expect to restate its financials, and it now has a new auditor.

Though shares are down in Tuesday trading, they racked up big gains in each of the prior five sessions, suggesting that investor confidence is building. The stock is still off 45% over a one-year span.

CFRA upgraded Super Micro shares to buy from hold ahead of the report. "Near-term margin recovery to mid-teens and market-share gains appear likely given [Super Micro's] proven rapid development capabilities and expanding product portfolio," analyst Shreya Gheewala wrote. But she also acknowledged "critical risks" for a stock with a "high-risk/reward opportunity [that] requires careful investor consideration."

Bryson was more cautious on Monday as he flagged "substantial unknowns" for the company. He also mentioned that order delays "could continue to weigh" on results "given our conversations suggesting softer demand for certain components tied to AI system installations."

From a numerical perspective, the FactSet consensus calls for $5.77 billion in fiscal second-quarter revenue, up from $3.67 billion a year ago. Analysts are also calling for 61 cents in adjusted earnings per share, which would be down from 56 cents a year earlier.

-Emily Bary

This content was created by MarketWatch, which is operated by Dow Jones & Co. MarketWatch is published independently from Dow Jones Newswires and The Wall Street Journal.

[MarketWatch](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_SN20250211011251:0/)
