---
title: "Expensify to Announce Q4 and Full Year Fiscal 2024 Results"
date: "2025-02-13 22:04:00"
summary: "Expensify to Announce Q4 and Full Year Fiscal 2024 ResultsJoin Expensify's earnings call on Thursday, February 27th at 2pm PT / 5pm ET.PORTLAND, Ore.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--February 13, 2025--Expensify, Inc. , a payments superapp that helps individuals and businesses around the world simplify the way they manage money across expenses, corporate cards..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Expensify to Announce Q4 and Full Year Fiscal 2024 Results

Join Expensify's earnings call on Thursday, February 27th at 2pm PT / 5pm ET.

PORTLAND, Ore.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--February 13, 2025--

Expensify, Inc. , a payments superapp that helps individuals and businesses around the world simplify the way they manage money across expenses, corporate cards and bills, today announced that the company's Q4 and full year fiscal 2024 financial results will be released after market close on Thursday, February 27th, 2025.

Expensify will host a call to discuss its Q4 and full year fiscal 2024 results on Thursday, February, 27th 2025 at 2pm PT / 5pm ET. The link to the call will be available that day on the company's Investor Relations website at investors.expensify.com. Prior to the call, interested parties can visit the website to add the event to their calendars.

After the call, the following will be made available at investors.expensify.com:

* A full recording of the call
* An investor deck and press release summarizing financial results

To get started using Expensify or to learn more, head over to use.expensify.com.

About Expensify

Expensify helps 15 million people worldwide track expenses, book travel, reimburse employees, manage corporate cards, send invoices, and pay bills--all in one place. Whether you're self-employed, running a small business, managing a team, or overseeing global finances, let Expensify handle your travel and expense, at the speed of chat.

View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20250213986540/en/

CONTACT: Investor Relations:

Nick Tooker

investors@expensify.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250213010117:0/)
