---
title: "Asia's Strong Economic Momentum Creates Potential for Robust Earnings Growth — Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-10 17:39:00"
summary: "0939 GMT - Asia's strong economic momentum creates the potential for robust earnings growth for companies in key markets and sectors, including artificial intelligence-related technology in Taiwan and Korea, as well as banking in India, according to analysts at PineBridge Investments. Between Taiwan's and Korea's technology sectors, the analysts \"tend..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

0939 GMT - Asia's strong economic momentum creates the potential for robust earnings growth for companies in key markets and sectors, including artificial intelligence-related technology in Taiwan and Korea, as well as banking in India, according to analysts at PineBridge Investments. Between Taiwan's and Korea's technology sectors, the analysts "tend to favor" Taiwanese companies, which they view as "more nimble and able to provide AI solutions to their customers", they say. The analysts add that they are "cautiously optimistic and see selective opportunities and continued competitive valuations in China." (tracy.qu@wsj.com)

0923 GMT - The market is overly concerned about the impact of DeepSeek on AI server demand, at least for this year, Bernstein analysts write in a note. While DeepSeek may be new to investors, its achievement is not a total surprise to companies in the AI industry, they add. The declining training and inference costs in the generative AI sector are crucial for the mass adoption of this technology among consumers and enterprises, as well as for achieving AGI, they say. The recent sentiment correction in the AI supply chain occurred sooner than analysts had expected for 2H25, presenting a buying opportunity for some stocks, Bernstein says. (jiahui.huang@wsj.com; @ivy\_jiahuihuang)

0922 GMT - India's central bank will likely cut rates by 25 bps in April, SMBC economist Ryota Abe says in a note. Estimates point to a continued economic slowdown, and the government and the Reserve Bank of India will likely work together to support the economy with complementary policies, Abe says. The RBI's recent manufacturing sentiment survey showed that 25% of companies surveyed reported shrinking net profit margins for the October-December quarter, up from 19% a year ago. That suggests a persistent manufacturing slowdown and likely contributed to the RBI's lowered GDP growth forecast for this fiscal year, the economist adds. In addition, as inflation stabilizes, real rates will remain high, leaving more room for lowering the nominal policy rate, Abe says. (kimberley.kao@wsj.com)

0905 GMT - European credit is likely to be a good source of income over the coming 12 months, BlackRock's James Turner and Simon Blundell say in a note. As the European Central Bank continues to cut interest rates and deposit rates fall, investors are likely to lower their cash holdings and invest in higher-yielding assets such as credit, BlackRock says. "Investors should look to step out of cash and increase allocations to fixed income to benefit from the higher yields," they say. European issuers remain in good financial health and strong demand for credit assets are likely to drive good performance in the asset class, BlackRock says. (miriam.mukuru@wsj.com)

0903 GMT - Sterling could rise against the euro if President Trump follows through on his threat for EU tariffs, ING's Chris Turner says in a note. The market expects the EU has more to lose than the U.K. on tariffs, he says. "We cannot rule out another drop in EUR/GBP to the 0.8250 area should tariffs hit Europe in the early part of this week." Against the dollar, however, sterling could fall towards the lower end of a 1.2250-1.2500 trading range. A speech from Bank of England official Catherine Mann on Tuesday and U.K. economic growth data Thursday could signal more interest-rate cuts. EUR/GBP trades flat at 0.8322 but GBP/USD rises 0.2% to 1.2397. (renae.dyer@wsj.com)

0839 GMT - U.S. President Trump's plans for new tariffs could introduce some volatility into bond markets, ING's rates strategists say in a note. "New tariffs threats, this time for metals, could bring some volatility," they say. Moves in bonds shouldn't be too large, however, as the news is unlikely to cause "a structural move higher or lower for rates." Trump said he plans to impose 25% tariffs Monday on imports of steel and aluminum. He also plans to make an announcement about reciprocal tariffs on Tuesday or Wednesday. The 10-year Bund yield falls 1 basis point to 2.370%, according to Tradeweb. (emese.bartha@wsj.com)

0826 GMT - The Australian dollar rises after data showed China's consumer inflation accelerated in January, boosted by prices of food and services ahead of the Lunar New Year holiday. The data help the commodity-linked currency to recover after falling earlier on U.S. President Trump's plans for 25% tariffs on imports of steel and aluminum, Swissquote Bank analyst Ipek Ozkardeskaya says in a note. "The swift recovery in the Australian dollar was certainly due to the encouraging Chinese data that showed that inflation advanced to the highest level in five months." The Australian dollar rises 0.4% to $0.6268, having earlier fallen to a 6-day low of $0.6238, FactSet data show. (jessica.fleetham@wsj.com)

0757 GMT - The dollar rises after President Trump said he would on Monday impose 25% tariffs on all steel and aluminum imports. These measures could be more prolonged than the tariffs recently imposed--then postponed--on Canada and Mexico, Pepperstone strategist Michael Brown says in a note. That means there's an increased risk of higher inflation and weaker economic growth. The dollar benefits from safe-haven demand and the Federal Reserve's cautious stance on interest rate cuts. Furthermore, the U.S. economy should prove more resilient than peers. "That said, anything close to, or above, 110.00 in the DXY dollar index seems a bit far-fetched for now," Brown says. The DXY rises 0.2% to 108.287. (renae.dyer@wsj.com)

0741 GMT - The impact of China's recently added 10% tariffs on auto imports from the U.S. is expected to be limited, Nomura analysts write in a note. China is set to impose an additional 10% tariff on imports of large vehicles and pickup trucks assembled in the U.S., bringing the total import duty to 25%, the analysts add. This move is part of a set of measures announced by Beijing on February 4 in retaliation against Trump's 10% tariffs on all Chinese goods imported to the U.S. However, given the decline in new vehicle imports to China following the pandemic, Nomura believes the impact on global automakers will be minimal. Last year, 50% of China's auto imports came from Europe and the U.K., the analysts note. (jiahui.huang@wsj.com; @ivy\_jiahuihuang)

0734 GMT - The FTSE 100 is expected to open seven points higher, or 0.1%, according to IG. The index closed 26 points lower, or 0.3%, to 8700 points Friday. President Trump on Sunday said he would impose 25% tariffs on all steel and aluminium imports from Monday. Risky assets are becoming desensitized to Trump's tariff announcements, Jefferies economist Mohit Kumar says in a note. "Our view in tariffs remain that they will cause volatility, are a negotiating tool and will eventually be not as bad as feared." Elsewhere, this week's focus is on U.S. inflation data Wednesday, a testimony from Federal Reserve Chair Jerome Powell on Tuesday and Wednesday and U.K. economic growth data on Thursday. (renae.dyer@wsj.com)

0721 GMT - The Japanese yen may extend its uptrend against Singapore dollar, says Quek Ser Leang of UOB's Global Economics & Markets Research in a report. Last week, the JPY/SGD pair's price movements transformed into a strong rally, which broke decisively above the top of the weekly Ichimoku cloud, the markets strategist notes. The weekly moving average convergence divergence has turned positive, signaling further upside potential. The currency pair also broke clearly above the daily declining trendline resistance connecting the September and December 2024 highs, the strategist says. The nearest meaningful resistance level is the high from last December, the strategist adds. According to FactSet, JPY/SGD is 0.5% lower at 0.0089; it touched 0.0091 last December. (ronnie.harui@wsj.com)

0718 GMT - Fresh headlines about U.S. tariffs keep markets on their toes and should keep German Bunds better supported, says Commerzbank Research's Rainer Guntermann. U.S. President Trump said he plans to impose 25% tariffs Monday on imports of steel and aluminum, and also said he plans to make an announcement about reciprocal tariffs on Tuesday or Wednesday. "Markets fear that Trump's 'reciprocal tariffs' could further weigh on the already gloomy growth outlook for the euro area," the rates strategist says in a note. With risk sentiment set to remain shaky, Bunds should remain better supported at the start of the week with 10-year yields below 2.40%, he says. The 10-year Bund yield is trading little changed at 2.374% at market open, according to LSEG. (emese.bartha@wsj.com)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250210002292:0/)
