---
title: "Renishaw Pretax Profit Rises on Growth in Americas, EMEA Regions"
date: "2025-02-13 15:19:00"
summary: "(07:01 GMT) *Renishaw 1H Rev GBP341.4M(07:01 GMT) *Analysts Saw Renishaw 1H Revenue GBP343.9M(07:01 GMT) *Renishaw 1H Pretax Pft GBP57.5M(07:01 GMT) *Analysts Saw Renishaw 1H Pre-Tax Profit GBP64.2M(07:02 GMT) *Renishaw 1H Oper Pft GBP51.6M(07:02 GMT) *Analysts Saw Renishaw 1H Operating Profit GBP53.2M(07:02 GMT) *Renishaw 1H EPS 63.2p(07:02 GMT) *Renishaw Keeps Dividend..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

**(07:01 GMT)** \*Renishaw 1H Rev GBP341.4M  
**(07:01 GMT)** \*Analysts Saw Renishaw 1H Revenue GBP343.9M  
**(07:01 GMT)** \*Renishaw 1H Pretax Pft GBP57.5M  
**(07:01 GMT)** \*Analysts Saw Renishaw 1H Pre-Tax Profit GBP64.2M  
**(07:02 GMT)** \*Renishaw 1H Oper Pft GBP51.6M  
**(07:02 GMT)** \*Analysts Saw Renishaw 1H Operating Profit GBP53.2M  
**(07:02 GMT)** \*Renishaw 1H EPS 63.2p  
**(07:02 GMT)** \*Renishaw Keeps Dividend at 16.8p  
**(07:03 GMT)** \*Renishaw 1H Net Pft GBP45.9M  
**(07:03 GMT)** \*Analysts Saw Renishaw 1H Net Income GBP50.7M  
**(07:19 GMT)** Renishaw Pretax Profit Rises on Growth in Americas, EMEA Regions

By Cristina Gallardo

Renishaw said pretax profit and revenue for the fiscal first half increased due to growth in the Americas and the Europe, Middle East and Africa regions.

The London-listed technology company said Thursday that for the six months ended Dec. 31 pretax profit was 57.5 million pounds ($71.6 million), 2% higher than during the same period of 2023. However, this was below a market consensus of 64.2 million pounds provided by Visible Alpha.

Revenue rose to 341.4 million pounds from 330.5 million pounds despite weaker sales of industrial metrology products to the consumer electronics sector in the Asia-Pacific region, the company said. Market consensus had expected 343.9 million pounds.

The board proposed a final dividend of 16.8 pence, flat on year.

"We have continued to make steady progress in mixed trading conditions and our order intake has recently improved, particularly from the semiconductor manufacturing and consumer electronics sectors," Chief Executive Will Lee said.

Renishaw expects full-year revenue to be 695 million to 735 million pounds and adjusted profit before tax at 105 million to 135 million pounds.

Write to Cristina Gallardo at cristina.gallardo@wsj.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250213002691:0/)
