---
title: "SMIC Quarterly Profit Falls, Expects Continued Revenue Growth"
date: "2025-02-11 18:04:00"
summary: "(09:22 GMT) *Semiconductor Manufacturing International Corp. 4Q Net $107.6M Vs. Net $174.7M &gt;0981.HK(09:23 GMT) *Semiconductor Manufacturing International Corp. 4Q Rev $2.21B Vs. $1.68B &gt;0981.HK(09:24 GMT) *SMIC 4Q Gross Margin 22.6% Vs. 16.4% &gt;0981.HK(09:26 GMT) *SMIC Sees 1Q Rev Rising 6%-8% on Quarter &gt;0981.HK(09:26 GMT) *SMIC Expects 1Q Gross Margin at..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

**(09:22 GMT)** \*Semiconductor Manufacturing International Corp. 4Q Net $107.6M Vs. Net $174.7M >0981.HK  
**(09:23 GMT)** \*Semiconductor Manufacturing International Corp. 4Q Rev $2.21B Vs. $1.68B >0981.HK  
**(09:24 GMT)** \*SMIC 4Q Gross Margin 22.6% Vs. 16.4% >0981.HK  
**(09:26 GMT)** \*SMIC Sees 1Q Rev Rising 6%-8% on Quarter >0981.HK  
**(09:26 GMT)** \*SMIC Expects 1Q Gross Margin at 19%-21% >0981.HK  
**(09:29 GMT)** \*SMIC 2024 Rev $8.03B, Up 27% >0981.HK  
**(09:29 GMT)** \*SMIC 2024 Capital Expenditure $7.33B >0981.HK  
**(09:31 GMT)** \*SMIC Expects 2025 Revenue Growth to Be Higher Than the Industry Average >0981.HK  
**(09:31 GMT)** \*SMIC Expects 2025 Capex to Be Roughly Flat >0981.HK  
**(09:39 GMT)** \*SMIC 2024 Net $492.7M, Down 45% >0981.HK  
**(09:39 GMT)** \*SMIC 2024 Net Profit Weighed by Lower Investment Income, Financial Income >0981.HK  
**(10:04 GMT)** SMIC Quarterly Profit Falls, Expects Continued Revenue Growth

By Sherry Qin

Semiconductor Manufacturing International Corp., China's largest chip maker, reported lower profit during the traditional off-peak season but said it expects continued revenue growth in the current quarter.

SMIC said Tuesday that its fourth-quarter net profit fell 38% from a year earlier to $107.6 million, missing a FactSet consensus estimate of $191.5 million.

Revenue for the quarter rose 31.5% to $2.21 billion, higher than analysts' expectations of $2.19 billion and in line with the company's guidance. SMIC's gross margin was 22.6%, topping its guidance of 18%-20%.

Despite stronger revenue, higher cost of sales and operating expenses weighed on its bottom line.

Management had already said during the third-quarter earnings call that customers' willingness to place orders were weak in the fourth quarter, as they typically use the period to adjust their inventories for the coming year.

The lackluster fourth-quarter results brought the full-year net profit to $492.7 million, a 45% decline from 2023, which the company attributed to lower investment income and financial income.

For the current quarter, SMIC said it expects revenue to rise 6%-8% sequentially and gross margin to be in the 19%-21% range.

The company expects its 2025 revenue growth to be higher than the industry average and the capital expenditure to be roughly flat.

Positive sentiment around China's chip-localization efforts and artificial-intelligence advancements have fueled the more than 40% rise in the company's Hong Kong-listed shares this year, adding to their 52.5% gain in the final quarter of 2024.

The gains have come despite the U.S. caps on how many advanced AI chips can be exported to certain countries after a core circuitry produced by TSMC was found in some of Huawei's AI chips last year.

Analysts said SMIC could be a primary beneficiary amid the localization efforts after the U.S. tightened chip restrictions further. DBS thinks the self-sufficiency rate of China's integrated circuit market has been on an upward trend and expects it to reach 26.6% in 2027 from 18.3% in 2022.

With homegrown AI startup DeepSeek's recent breakthrough, SMIC, as the only Chinese foundry capable of producing sub-14 nanometer advanced chips, is positioned to meet rising demand for domestically designed AI graphics processing units and accelerators, DBS said in a note.

DeepSeek's success despite the lack of the most advanced chips could also reduce the urgency for SMIC to produce cutting-edge chips, Morningstar analyst Phelix Lee said in a note.

Write to Sherry Qin at sherry.qin@wsj.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250211001973:0/)
