---
title: "Alibaba Stock Surges on Apple Collaboration Reported. Why China Tech Is Back in Style. — Barrons.com"
date: "2025-02-13 00:44:00"
summary: "By Brian SwintAlibaba stock is soaring after reports that Apple had submitted AI tools it had developed with the Chinese tech company to regulators.Alibaba surged 8.5% in Hong Kong Wednesday, the most in almost two years, after a report that AI features it developed with iPhone-maker Apple had been submitted..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Brian Swint

Alibaba stock is soaring after reports that Apple had submitted AI tools it had developed with the Chinese tech company to regulators.

Alibaba surged 8.5% in Hong Kong Wednesday, the most in almost two years, after a report that AI features it developed with iPhone-maker Apple had been submitted to regulators for approval. BABA American depositary receipts rose 4.3% when the market opened, putting it on track for its biggest gain in two years. The progress in the partnership could help Apple, too, though its shares were only up 0.5%.

Apple sales have been struggling in China — iPhone revenue slumped 25% there in the fourth quarter — as the trade wars between the two biggest economies heated up. The U.S. banned exports of the most advanced semiconductors to China, and President Donald Trump recently increased tariffs on imports from the country. China has partially retaliated on tariffs and has asked government employees not to use iPhones.

Apple recently submitted features for Apple Intelligence, as its AI features are labeled, for sign off from China regulators — a process that could take months to complete, The Wall Street Journal reported. Still, the news is a win for Alibaba, who partnered with Apple on the project. Apple had previously tried working with search engine firm Baidu on AI features. Barron's recently argued that Alibaba's new technology and cheap valuation made it worth a look.

Chinese tech companies recently got a boost from the rise of DeepSeek, an AI chatbot that a start-up claims to have developed at a fraction of the cost of competitors such as ChatGPT. That undermined the assumption that U.S. firms would always have the lead in AI.

After years of being beaten down by trade tension with the U.S. and national security complaints that led to America banning Huawei telecom equipment and forcing social-media platform TikTok to separate from its Chinese parent, the sector is surging ahead.

The Hang Seng finished 2.6% higher Wednesday. Its technology subindex is up 18% since the start of the year, and has gained 65% over the past 12 months. By way of comparison, the S&P Information Technology Sector Index has gained 25% in the past 12 months.

Baidu ADRs gained 3.6% in early trading Wednesday — separately, CNBC reported that it will release its next generation AI model in the second half of this year. Internet retailer JD.com slipped 3.5% while Temu-parent PDD gained 0.7%. Electric vehicle makers XPeng and BYD both rose.

Corrections & Amplifications :

Apple is reported to have submitted AI tools it has developed with Alibaba to regulators. An earlier version of this article incorrectly said that Alibaba said it had submitted the tools to regulators.

Write to Brian Swint at brian.swint@barrons.com

This content was created by Barron's, which is operated by Dow Jones & Co. Barron's is published independently from Dow Jones Newswires and The Wall Street Journal.

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250212010118:0/)
