---
title: "Macquarie's 3Q Banking Performance Keeps Nine-Month Profit Flat on Year"
date: "2025-02-11 05:53:00"
summary: "By Stuart CondieSYDNEY--Macquarie Group's net profit for the first three quarters of its fiscal year was broadly in line a year earlier, with an improved performance by its bank helping offset weakness elsewhere.Macquarie, Australia's biggest investment bank and asset manager, on Tuesday said that the combined third-quarter profit contribution of..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Stuart Condie

SYDNEY--Macquarie Group's net profit for the first three quarters of its fiscal year was broadly in line a year earlier, with an improved performance by its bank helping offset weakness elsewhere.

Macquarie, Australia's biggest investment bank and asset manager, on Tuesday said that the combined third-quarter profit contribution of its asset-management and banking-and-financial-services units was substantially higher than in the prior corresponding period.

December-quarter volume growth in banking and financial was the primary driver, it added.

Over the fiscal year-to-date, Macquarie Asset Management's higher performance fees and investment income also helped lift the profit contribution from annuity style businesses.

Profit contribution from Commodities and Global Markets, and Macquarie Capital--the company's markets-facing businesses--was substantially lower over both the third quarter and the fiscal year to date.

Macquarie had surplus capital of 8.5 billion Australian dollars, or about US$5.3 billion, at the end of December. It had completed just over half of its previously announced on-market A$2 billion share buyback by Feb. 10.

Write to Stuart Condie at stuart.condie@wsj.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250210011334:0-macquarie-s-3q-banking-performance-keeps-nine-month-profit-flat-on-year/)
