---
title: "News Highlights: Top Global Markets News of the Day - Tuesday at 9 PM ET"
date: "2025-02-12 10:00:00"
summary: "Nasdaq Slips; Bond Yields RiseU.S. stocks were mixed as investors considered the latest on tariffs, monetary policy and corporate earnings.Powell Says Fed Doesn't Need to Rush on Rate CutsThe Fed chair delivered a simple message to lawmakers: Because the economy is doing well, the Fed can take its time to..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

**Nasdaq Slips; Bond Yields Rise**

U.S. stocks were mixed as investors considered the latest on tariffs, monetary policy and corporate earnings.

**Powell Says Fed Doesn't Need to Rush on Rate Cuts**

The Fed chair delivered a simple message to lawmakers: Because the economy is doing well, the Fed can take its time to decide when and whether to lower interest rates.

**Trump Advisers Eye Bank Regulator Consolidation After Targeting CFPB**

Pathways under discussion would attempt to merge the FDIC, OCC without input from Congress.

**Why This Week's Inflation Report Is Especially Important**

Fed officials are wary about getting through turn-of-the-year price resets, which contributed to big inflation jumps in recent years.

**Forget CPI. This market indicator says inflation may stay above 2% for years.**

Investors and traders were bracing for Wednesday's consumer-price index report for January to mostly reflect either little change from or a slight improvement over the final month of 2024. Yet one part of the financial market continued to flash worrisome signs about future price gains.

**European Commission Chief Vows Response to Trump's Steel Tariffs**

The unjustified tariffs on the EU would trigger firm and proportionate countermeasures, Ursula von der Leyen said in a statement.

**The Magnificent 7 Are So Last Year. Cash Cows Are the New Kings.**

A twist on value has investors waking up to the beauty of companies returning gobs of cash to shareholders.

**SEC Hits Pause on Defense of Climate Disclosure Rule**

Acting Chair Mark Uyeda said he has directed staff to ask that an appeals court delay arguments while commissioners deliberate on next steps.

**India's Modi Wants to Head Off Trump Tariffs. How He Will Do It.**

India has benefited from the decline of the U.S.-China relationship and is viewed as a possible ally in countering China's rise politically

**BOE Key Rate Should Remain 'Well Above' Neutral, Mann Says**

The BOE should continue to restrain economic activity to ensure that households and businesses don't act in ways that would prolong a coming pickup in inflation, the Monetary Policy Committee member said.

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250211013285:0/)
