---
title: "Chevron to Lay Off Up to 20% of Workers. Why the Oil Industry Is Slimming Down. — Barrons.com"
date: "2025-02-13 01:04:00"
summary: "By Avi SalzmanChevron will lay off 15% to 20% of its workers, or roughly 6,000 to 8,000 people, the company told employees on Wednesday. A top company executive told Barron's that the layoffs are part of a larger cost-cutting initiative, and are not a sign of broader problems at the..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Avi Salzman

Chevron will lay off 15% to 20% of its workers, or roughly 6,000 to 8,000 people, the company told employees on Wednesday. A top company executive told Barron's that the layoffs are part of a larger cost-cutting initiative, and are not a sign of broader problems at the company.

"This is about us continuing to improve and positioning us to accelerate all the cash-generation that you've heard us talk about here over the past few years," said Vice Chairman Mark Nelson in an interview. The layoffs will happen all over the world, and in all of the company's major divisions, Nelson said.

At the same time, the company has been boosting its returns to shareholders, by ramping up dividends and share-buybacks. In the past two years, Chevron has bought back $30 billion worth of its own shares, cutting its share count by about 10%. It has repeatedly raised its dividend too, and the stock now has a dividend yield of 4.4%.

Chevron is not the only company in the oilfield that's been slimming down. Oil-and-gas companies have gotten much more efficient at producing oil, by using new techniques and technology to extract and process more oil and natural gas. Even as America has seen an oil-production boom, becoming the largest producer in the world, it hasn't seen a comparable employment boom. Over the past decade, the U.S. has pumped out 60% more oil a day with about 40% fewer workers.

Chevron had made clear it wants to become a leaner company. It said on its latest earnings call that it is targeting $2 to $3 billion worth of structural cost improvements by the end of 2026. It has also been pulling back operations in several parts of the world, recently selling assets in Canada, the Republic of Congo, and Alaska.

Chevron is increasingly focused on a few high-growth areas, including the Permian Basin of Texas and New Mexico, a major oil development in Kazakhstan, and new projects in the Gulf of America.

Nelson said the company also is standardizing its processes around the world, allowing it to cut costs. If the company figures out a new technique in one of its shale basins, "we don't need to solve that problem three or four times across many basins. We need to solve it once and execute it more quickly across the system," he said.

Chevron's employee count has fallen steadily over the past decade, to just under 40,000 people globally at the end of last year from about 61,000 at the end of 2014 (not including the company's 5,000 or so service station employees). A little over half of Chevron's employees are in the U.S.

Exxon Mobil is also in cost-cutting mode. It says it will cut costs by $18 billion by 2030 from 2019 levels, and has already cut $12.1 billion. Exxon has not made similar layoff announcements to Chevron's in recent months, but its employee count has been trending downward, outside of new employees added through acquisitions. Between 2013 and 2023, its employee base fell from 75,000 to 62,000.

Both companies are using new technology, including artificial intelligence, to guide their drilling decisions. One of the largest fears about AI is that it replaces humans, leading to layoffs like the ones Chevron is announcing. In response, Nelson said he thinks of AI as "not being a replacement for people," but as a way for people to work with technology to "create more value," he said.

Write to Avi Salzman at avi.salzman@barrons.com

This content was created by Barron's, which is operated by Dow Jones & Co. Barron's is published independently from Dow Jones Newswires and The Wall Street Journal.

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250212010556:0/)
