---
title: "Koppers Holdings Inc. Announces Increase to Quarterly Cash Dividend"
date: "2025-02-12 23:10:00"
summary: "(15:10 GMT) *Koppers Holdings Inc. Announces Increase To Quarterly Cash Dividend &gt;KOP(15:10 GMT) Press Release: Koppers Holdings Inc. Announces Increase to Quarterly Cash DividendKoppers Holdings Inc. Announces Increase to Quarterly Cash DividendPR NewswirePITTSBURGH, Feb. 12, 2025PITTSBURGH, Feb. 12, 2025 /PRNewswire/ — Koppers Holdings Inc. , an integrated global provider of..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

**(15:10 GMT)** \*Koppers Holdings Inc. Announces Increase To Quarterly Cash Dividend >KOP  
**(15:10 GMT)** Press Release: Koppers Holdings Inc. Announces Increase to Quarterly Cash Dividend

Koppers Holdings Inc. Announces Increase to Quarterly Cash Dividend

PR Newswire

PITTSBURGH, Feb. 12, 2025

PITTSBURGH, Feb. 12, 2025 /PRNewswire/ — Koppers Holdings Inc. , an integrated global provider of treated wood products, wood treatment chemicals, and carbon compounds, today announced that its Board of Directors has approved a 14 percent increase in the planned quarterly dividend rate for 2025, from $0.07 to $0.08 per share of Koppers common stock. A quarterly dividend will be paid on March 24, 2025, to shareholders of record as of the close of trading on March 7, 2025.

At this quarterly dividend rate, subject to the standard quarterly review by the Board of Directors, the annual dividend rate for 2025 increases to $0.32 per share.

Chief Executive Officer Leroy Ball said, "This dividend increase reflects our continued confidence in the company's strategies to generate sustainable, profitable growth. At the same time, we remain committed to our balanced capital allocation approach of investing for the future as well as returning cash to shareholders."

Koppers expects to pay regular quarterly dividends, with future declarations subject to approval by its Board of Directors and the Board's determination that the declaration of dividends remains in the best interests of Koppers and its shareholders. The decision of whether to pay future dividends and the amount of any such dividends will be based on the Company's financial position, results of operations, cash flows, capital requirements, the requirements of applicable law and any other factors the Board of Directors may deem relevant.

About Koppers

Koppers is an integrated global provider of essential treated wood products, wood preservation technologies and carbon compounds. Our team of 2,100 employees create, protect and preserve key elements of our global infrastructure — including railroad crossties, utility poles, outdoor wooden structures, and production feedstocks for steel, aluminum and construction materials, among others — applying decades of industry-leading expertise while constantly innovating to anticipate the needs of tomorrow. Together we are providing safe and sustainable solutions to enable rail transportation, keep power flowing, and create spaces of enjoyment for people everywhere. Protecting What Matters, Preserving The Future. Learn more at Koppers.com.

Inquiries from the media should be directed to Ms. Jessica Franklin Black at BlackJF@koppers.com or 412-227-2025. Inquiries from the investment community should be directed to Ms. Quynh McGuire at McGuireQT@koppers.com or 412-227-2049.

Safe Harbor Statement

Certain statements in this press release are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and may include, but are not limited to, statements about sales levels, acquisitions, restructuring, declines in the value of Koppers assets and the effect of any resulting impairment charges, profitability and anticipated expenses and cash outflows. All forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties.

All statements contained herein that are not clearly historical in nature are forward-looking, and words such as "outlook," "guidance," "forecast," "believe," "anticipate," "expect," "estimate," "may," "will, " "should," "continue," "plan," "potential," "intend," "likely," or other similar words or phrases are generally intended to identify forward-looking statements. Any forward-looking statement contained herein, in other press releases, written statements or other documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or in Koppers communications and discussions with investors and analysts in the normal course of business through meetings, phone calls and conference calls, regarding future dividends, expectations with respect to sales, earnings, cash flows, operating efficiencies, restructurings, cost reduction efforts, the benefits of acquisitions, divestitures, joint ventures or other matters as well as financings and debt reduction, are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and contingencies.

Many of these risks, uncertainties and contingencies are beyond our control, and may cause actual results, performance or achievements to differ materially from anticipated results, performance or achievements. Factors that might affect such forward-looking statements include, among other things, availability of and fluctuations in the prices of key raw materials, including coal tar, lumber and scrap copper; the impact of changes in commodity prices, such as oil, copper and chemicals, on product margins; the extent of the dependence of certain of our businesses on certain market sectors and customers; economic, political and environmental conditions in international markets, including governmental changes, tariffs, restrictions on trade and restrictions on the ability to transfer capital across countries; general economic and business conditions; potential difficulties in protecting our intellectual property; the ratings on our debt and our ability to repay or refinance our outstanding indebtedness as it matures; our ability to operate within the limitations of our debt covenants; unexpected business disruptions; potential delays in timing or changes to expected benefits from cost reduction efforts; potential impairment of our goodwill and/or long-lived assets; demand for Koppers goods and services; competitive conditions; capital market conditions, including interest rates, borrowing costs and foreign currency rate fluctuations; disruptions and inefficiencies in the supply chain; changes in laws; the impact of environmental laws and regulations; unfavorable resolution of claims against us, as well as those discussed more fully elsewhere in this release and in documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission by Koppers, particularly our latest annual report on Form 10-K and any subsequent filings by Koppers with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Any forward-looking statements in this release speak only as of the date of this release, and we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances after that date or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events.

```
   
For   
 Information:    Quynh McGuire, Vice President, Investor Relations   
                 412 227 2049   
                 McGuireQT@koppers.com   
 
```

View original content to download multimedia:https://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/koppers-holdings-inc-announces-increase-to-quarterly-cash-dividend-302374877.html

SOURCE KOPPERS HOLDINGS INC.

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250212009316:0/)
