---
title: "Advanced Energy Reports Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2024 Results"
date: "2025-02-13 05:01:00"
summary: "(21:01 GMT) *Advanced Energy 4Q EPS $1.29 &gt;AEIS(21:01 GMT) *Advanced Energy 4Q Net $48.9M &gt;AEIS(21:01 GMT) Press Release: Advanced Energy Reports Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2024 ResultsAdvanced Energy Reports Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2024 ResultsQ4 revenue was $415.4 million, above the high end of guidance Q4 GAAP EPS..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

**(21:01 GMT)** \*Advanced Energy 4Q EPS $1.29 >AEIS  
**(21:01 GMT)** \*Advanced Energy 4Q Net $48.9M >AEIS  
**(21:01 GMT)** Press Release: Advanced Energy Reports Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2024 Results

Advanced Energy Reports Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2024 Results

* Q4 revenue was $415.4 million, above the high end of guidance
* Q4 GAAP EPS from continuing operations was $1.29; Q4 Non-GAAP EPS was $1.30, above the mid-point of guidance
* 2024 revenue was $1.48 billion
* 2024 GAAP EPS from continuing operations was $1.49; 2024 Non-GAAP EPS was $3.71
* 2024 cash flow from continuing operations was $132.9 million

DENVER--(BUSINESS WIRE)--February 12, 2025--

Advanced Energy Industries, Inc. , a global leader in highly engineered, precision power conversion, measurement, and control solutions, today announced financial results for the fourth quarter and year ended December 31, 2024.

"Fourth quarter results exceeded our guidance, with total revenue resuming year-over-year growth on better-than-expected demand in our semiconductor and data center computing markets," said Steve Kelley, president and CEO of Advanced Energy. "Customers are embracing our best-in-class products, which we believe will drive meaningful share gains as markets recover."

Quarter Results

Revenue was $415.4 million in the fourth quarter of 2024, compared with $374.2 million in the third quarter of 2024 and $405.3 million in the fourth quarter of 2023.

GAAP net income from continuing operations was $49.1 million or $1.29 per diluted share in the quarter, compared with GAAP net loss of $14.1 million or a loss of $0.38 per diluted share in the prior quarter, and GAAP net income of $37.9 million or $1.01 per diluted share a year ago.

GAAP net income in the fourth quarter included a one-time, net tax benefit of $15.0 million as a result of an intercompany transfer of assets as part of the company streamlining its legal entity structure. GAAP net loss in the third quarter reflected a $28.5 million restructuring charge as part of our previously announced manufacturing consolidation. GAAP net income in the fourth quarter of 2023 included a restructuring and impairment charge of $18.1 million as part of the factory and cost optimization plan and a tax benefit of $25.6 million as a result of the release of a deferred tax asset valuation allowance.

Non-GAAP net income was $49.4 million or $1.30 per diluted share in the fourth quarter of 2024. This compares with $37.0 million or $0.98 per diluted share in the third quarter of 2024, and $46.7 million or $1.24 per diluted share in the fourth quarter of 2023.

Advanced Energy generated $82.7 million in cash flow from continuing operations during the quarter and paid $3.8 million in quarterly dividends.

Full Year 2024 Results

2024 revenue was $1.48 billion, a 10% decrease from $1.66 billion in 2023.

GAAP net income from continuing operations was $56.3 million or $1.49 per diluted share in 2024, compared with $130.7 million or $3.46 per diluted share in 2023.

GAAP net income for the year included a one-time, net tax benefit of $15.0 million as a result of an intercompany transfer of assets as part of the company streamlining its legal entity structure and a $29.6 million restructuring charge as part of our previously announced manufacturing consolidation. GAAP net income in 2023 included a restructuring and impairment charge of $27.0 million as part of the factory and cost optimization plan and a tax benefit of $25.6 million as a result of the release of a deferred tax asset valuation allowance.

The Company generated $132.9 million in cash flow from operating activities from continuing operations, repurchased $1.8 million of common stock at an average price of $93.58, and paid $15.4 million in dividends. The Company used $355.0 million of cash on hand to prepay the term loan. At year-end, outstanding debt was $564.7 million, representing the 2028 convertible notes, net of unamortized issuance costs. Cash and equivalents at year-end were $722.1 million.

Non-GAAP net income was $140.3 million or $3.71 per diluted share in 2024. This compares with $184.0 million or $4.88 per diluted share in 2023.

A reconciliation of GAAP and non-GAAP measures is provided in the tables below.

First Quarter 2025 Guidance

Based on the Company's current view, beliefs, and assumptions, guidance is within the following ranges:

```
   
   
                                                    Q1 2025   
                                     --------------------------------------   
Revenue                                   $392 million +/- $20 million   
GAAP EPS from continuing operations             $0.48 +/- $0.25   
Non-GAAP EPS                                    $1.03 +/- $0.25   
 
```

Conference Call

Management will host a conference call today, February 12, 2025, at 2:30 p.m. Eastern Time to discuss the fourth quarter financial results. To participate in the live earnings conference call, please dial 877-407-0890 approximately ten minutes prior to the start of the meeting and an operator will connect you. International participants can dial +1-201-389-0918. A webcast will also be available on our investor web page at ir.advancedenergy.com in the Events & Presentations section. The archived webcast will be available approximately two hours following the end of the live event.

About Advanced Energy

Advanced Energy Industries, Inc. is a global leader in the design and manufacture of highly engineered, precision power conversion, measurement and control solutions for mission-critical applications and processes. Advanced Energy's power solutions enable customer innovation in complex applications for a wide range of industries including semiconductor equipment, industrial production, medical and life sciences, data center computing, networking, and telecommunications. With engineering know-how and responsive service and support for customers around the globe, the Company builds collaborative partnerships to meet technology advances, propels growth of its customers, and innovates the future of power. Advanced Energy has devoted four decades to perfecting power. It is headquartered in Denver, Colorado, USA. For more information, visit www.advancedenergy.com.

Advanced Energy | Precision. Power. Performance. Trust.

Non-GAAP Measures

This release includes measures, such as non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP earnings per share ("EPS") that are not prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("U.S. GAAP"). Management uses non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP EPS to evaluate business performance without the impacts of certain non-cash charges and other charges which are not part of our usual operations. We use these non-GAAP measures to assess performance against business objectives and make business decisions, including developing budgets and forecasting future periods. In addition, management's incentive plans include these non-GAAP measures as criteria for achievements. These non-GAAP measures are not prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP and may differ from non-GAAP methods of accounting and reporting used by other companies. However, we believe these non-GAAP measures provide additional information that enables readers to evaluate our business from the perspective of management. The presentation of this additional information should not be considered a substitute for results prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP.

The non-GAAP results presented below exclude the impact of non-cash related charges, such as stock-based compensation, amortization of intangible assets, and long-term unrealized foreign exchange gains and losses. In addition, we exclude discontinued operations and other non-recurring items such as acquisition-related costs, facility expansion and related costs, and restructuring expenses, as they are not indicative of future performance. The tax effect of our non-GAAP adjustments represents the anticipated annual tax rate applied to each non-GAAP adjustment after consideration of their respective book and tax treatments.

Forward-Looking Statements

This press release and statements we make on the above announced conference call contain, in addition to historical information, forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Statements in this press release or the conference call that are not historical information are forward-looking statements. For example, statements relating to our beliefs, expectations, and plans are forward-looking statements, as are statements that certain actions, conditions, or circumstances will continue. The inclusion of words such as "anticipate," "expect," "estimate," "can," "may," "might," "continue," "enables," "plan," "intend," "should," "could," "would," "likely," "potential," or "believe, " and similar expressions and the negative versions thereof indicate forward-looking statements; however, not all forward-looking statements may contain such words or expressions. These forward-looking statements are based upon information available as of the date of this press release and management's current estimates, forecasts, and assumptions. Although we believe that our expectations reflected in or suggested by these forward-looking statements are reasonable, we may not achieve the results, performance, plans, or objectives expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, which are difficult to predict and many of which are beyond our control.

Risks and uncertainties to which our forward-looking statements are subject include, but are not limited to: volatility and business fluctuations in the industries in which we operate; our ability to achieve design wins with new and existing customers; our ability to accurately forecast and meet customer demand; risks related to global economic conditions, such as the impact of escalating global conflicts on macroeconomic conditions, economic uncertainty, market volatility, rising interest rates, inflation, or recession; customer price sensitivity; concentration of our customer base; risks associated with breach of our information security measures; difficulties with the implementation of our enterprise resource planning and other enterprise-wide information technology system applications; our loss of or inability to attract and retain key personnel; risks associated with our manufacturing footprint optimization and movement of manufacturing locations for certain products; disruptions to our manufacturing operations or those of our customers or suppliers; our ability to successfully identify, close, integrate and realize anticipated benefits from our acquisitions; quality issues or unanticipated costs in fulfilling our warranty obligations (including our discontinued solar inverter product line); risks inherent in our international operations, including the effect of trade and export controls, political and geographical risks, the impact of tariffs on our supply or products, and fluctuations in currency exchange rates; our ability to enforce, protect, and maintain our proprietary technology and intellectual property rights; regulatory risk related to our supply chain; legal matters, claims, investigations, and proceedings; changes to tax laws and regulations or our tax rates; changes in federal, state, local and foreign regulations, including with respect to privacy and data protection, and environmental regulation; the effect of our debt obligations and restrictive covenants on our ability to operate our business; risks related to our unfunded pension obligations; our estimates of the fair value of intangible assets; the potential impact of dilution related to our convertible debt, hedge, and warrant transactions; and certain risks relating to ownership of our common stock.

Actual results could differ materially and adversely from those expressed in any forward-looking statements, and readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. Factors that could contribute to these differences or prove our forward-looking statements, by hindsight, to be overly optimistic or unachievable include, but are not limited to, the risks and uncertainties listed above and described in Advanced Energy's Form 10-K, Forms 10-Q and other reports and statements filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"). These reports and statements are available on the SEC's website at www.sec.gov. Copies may also be obtained from Advanced Energy's investor relations page at ir.advancedenergy.com or by contacting Advanced Energy's investor relations at 970-407-6555. Forward-looking statements are made and based on information available to us on the date of this press release. Aspirational goals and targets discussed on the conference call or in the presentation materials should not be interpreted in any respect as guidance. We assume no obligation to update the information in this press release or provide the reasons why our actual results may differ.

```
   
ADVANCED ENERGY INDUSTRIES, INC.   
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS (UNAUDITED)   
(in thousands, except per share data)   
   
   
                                Three Months Ended                       Year Ended   
                     ----------------------------------------  ------------------------------   
                                                  September   
                            December 31,             30,                December 31,   
                     --------------------------  ------------  ------------------------------   
                         2024          2023          2024           2024            2023   
                     ------------  ------------  ------------  --------------  --------------   
Revenue, net         $415,403      $405,271      $374,217      $1,482,042      $1,655,810   
Cost of revenue       260,698       262,405       240,149         952,699       1,063,412   
                      -------       -------       -------       ---------       ---------   
Gross profit          154,705       142,866       134,068         529,343         592,398   
Gross margin %           37.2%         35.3%         35.8%           35.7%           35.8%   
   
Operating   
expenses:   
   Research and   
    development        56,102        49,025        53,561         211,834         202,439   
   Selling,   
    general, and   
    administrative     58,164        54,932        56,237         224,538         221,034   
   Amortization of   
    intangible   
    assets              5,527         7,068         6,772          26,046          28,254   
   Restructuring,   
    asset   
    impairments,   
    and other   
    charges               902        18,071        28,546          30,318          26,977   
                      -------       -------       -------       ---------       ---------   
Total operating   
 expenses             120,695       129,096       145,116         492,736         478,704   
                      -------       -------       -------       ---------       ---------   
Operating income   
 (loss)                34,010        13,770       (11,048)         36,607         113,694   
   
Interest income         7,078        12,810        11,018          42,860          27,092   
Interest expense       (4,644)       (7,198)       (6,378)        (25,105)        (16,566)   
Other income   
 (expense), net         4,137        (3,184)       (8,139)         (1,985)         (1,759)   
                      -------       -------       -------       ---------       ---------   
Income from   
 continuing   
 operations, before   
 income tax            40,581        16,198       (14,547)         52,377         122,461   
Income tax benefit     (8,481)      (21,693)         (400)         (3,929)         (8,288)   
                      -------       -------       -------       ---------       ---------   
Income (loss) from   
 continuing   
 operations            49,062        37,891       (14,147)         56,306         130,749   
Loss from   
 discontinued   
 operations, net of   
 income tax              (188)         (389)         (758)         (2,092)         (2,465)   
                      -------       -------       -------       ---------       ---------   
Net income (loss)    $ 48,874      $ 37,502      $(14,905)     $   54,214      $  128,284   
                      =======       =======       =======       =========       =========   
   
Basic   
 weighted-average   
 common shares   
 outstanding           37,536        37,297        37,532          37,476          37,480   
Diluted   
 weighted-average   
 common shares   
 outstanding           38,000        37,585        37,532          37,839          37,750   
   
Earnings (loss)   
per share   
attributable to   
Advanced Energy   
Industries, Inc:   
   
   Continuing   
   operations:   
      Basic   
       earnings   
       (loss) per   
       share         $   1.31      $   1.02      $  (0.38)     $     1.50      $     3.49   
      Diluted   
       earnings   
       (loss) per   
       share         $   1.29      $   1.01      $  (0.38)     $     1.49      $     3.46   
   
   Discontinued   
   operations:   
      Basic loss   
       per share     $  (0.01)     $  (0.01)     $  (0.02)     $    (0.06)     $    (0.07)   
      Diluted loss   
       per share     $     --      $  (0.01)     $  (0.02)     $    (0.06)     $    (0.07)   
   
   Net income   
   (loss):   
      Basic   
       earnings   
       (loss) per   
       share         $   1.30      $   1.01      $  (0.40)     $     1.45      $     3.42   
      Diluted   
       earnings   
       (loss) per   
       share         $   1.29      $   1.00      $  (0.40)     $     1.43      $     3.40   
   
   
   
ADVANCED ENERGY INDUSTRIES, INC.   
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (UNAUDITED)   
(in thousands)   
   
                                         December 31,     December 31,   
                                             2024             2023   
                                        --------------  ----------------   
ASSETS   
Current assets:   
   Cash and cash equivalents            $      722,086  $    1,044,556   
   Accounts receivables, net                   265,315         282,430   
   Inventories                                 360,411         336,137   
   Other current assets                         41,511          48,771   
                                            ----------      ----------   
Total current assets                         1,389,323       1,711,894   
   
Property and equipment, net                    185,604         167,665   
Operating lease right-of-use assets             96,305          95,432   
Other assets                                   155,269         136,448   
Goodwill and intangible assets, net            435,393         445,318   
                                            ----------      ----------   
Total assets                            $    2,261,894  $    2,556,757   
                                            ==========      ==========   
   
LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY   
   
Current liabilities:   
   Accounts payable                     $      143,502  $      141,850   
   Other accrued expenses                      152,894         156,254   
   Current portion of long-term debt                --          20,000   
   Current portion of operating lease   
    liabilities                                 17,826          17,744   
                                            ----------      ----------   
Total current liabilities                      314,222         335,848   
   
   Long-term debt                              564,695         895,679   
   Other long-term liabilities                 176,267         181,048   
                                            ----------      ----------   
Long-term liabilities                          740,962       1,076,727   
                                            ----------      ----------   
   
Total liabilities                            1,055,184       1,412,575   
Deferred compensation                            3,539              --   
   
Total stockholders' equity                   1,203,171       1,144,182   
                                            ----------      ----------   
Total liabilities and stockholders'   
 equity                                 $    2,261,894  $    2,556,757   
                                            ==========      ==========   
   
   
   
ADVANCED ENERGY INDUSTRIES, INC.   
 CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS (UNAUDITED)   
 (in thousands)   
   
                                            Year Ended December 31,   
                                         -----------------------------   
                                              2024           2023   
                                         --------------  -------------   
CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES:   
   Net income                            $      54,214   $  128,284   
   Less: loss from discontinued   
    operations, net of income tax               (2,092)      (2,465)   
                                             ---------    ---------   
   Income from continuing operations,   
    net of income tax                           56,306      130,749   
   
   Adjustments to reconcile net income   
   to net cash from operating   
   activities:   
      Depreciation and amortization             68,455       66,533   
      Stock-based compensation                  45,940       31,001   
      Amortization and write off of   
       debt issuance costs and debt   
       discount                                  3,771        1,330   
      Deferred income tax benefit              (20,505)     (33,940)   
      Other                                      1,165          439   
      Changes in operating assets and   
       liabilities, net of assets   
       acquired                                (22,208)      16,813   
                                             ---------    ---------   
         Net cash from operating   
          activities from continuing   
          operations                           132,924      212,925   
         Net cash from operating   
          activities from discontinued   
          operations                            (2,177)      (3,988)   
                                             ---------    ---------   
            Net cash from operating   
             activities                        130,747      208,937   
   
CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES:   
   Purchases of long-term investments           (2,991)      (3,746)   
   Purchases of property and equipment         (56,788)     (61,005)   
   Acquisitions, net of cash acquired          (13,762)           -   
                                             ---------    ---------   
      Net cash from investing   
       activities                              (73,541)     (64,751)   
   
CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES:   
   Proceeds from long-term borrowings                -      575,000   
   Payment of fees for long-term   
    borrowings                                    (105)     (13,880)   
   Payments on long-term borrowings           (355,000)     (20,000)   
   Dividend payments                           (15,369)     (15,222)   
   Payment for purchase of note hedges               -     (115,000)   
   Proceeds from sale of warrants                    -       74,865   
   Purchase and retirement of common   
    stock                                       (1,770)     (40,000)   
   Net payments related to stock-based   
    awards                                      (4,849)         (79)   
                                             ---------    ---------   
      Net cash from financing   
       activities                             (377,093)     445,684   
   
EFFECT OF CURRENCY TRANSLATION ON CASH          (2,583)      (4,132)   
   
NET CHANGE IN CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS       (322,470)     585,738   
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS, beginning of   
 period                                      1,044,556      458,818   
                                             ---------    ---------   
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS, end of   
 period                                  $     722,086   $1,044,556   
                                             =========    =========   
   
   
   
ADVANCED ENERGY INDUSTRIES, INC.   
SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION (UNAUDITED)   
(in thousands)   
   
   
Net Revenue by   
Market                 Three Months Ended               Year Ended   
                 -------------------------------  ----------------------   
                                      September   
                    December 31,         30,           December 31,   
                 ------------------  -----------  ----------------------   
                   2024      2023       2024         2024        2023   
                 --------  --------  -----------  ----------  ----------   
Semiconductor   
 Equipment       $226,838  $191,375  $   197,497  $  792,559  $  743,794   
Industrial and   
 Medical           76,818   108,600       76,837     316,177     474,449   
Data Center   
 Computing         88,673    62,853       80,653     284,192     249,874   
Telecom and   
 Networking        23,074    42,443       19,230      89,114     187,693   
                  -------   -------      -------   ---------   ---------   
Total            $415,403  $405,271  $   374,217  $1,482,042  $1,655,810   
                  =======   =======      =======   =========   =========   
   
   
   
Net Revenue   
by   
Geographic   
Region              Three Months Ended               Year Ended   
              -------------------------------  ----------------------   
                                   September   
                 December 31,         30,           December 31,   
              ------------------  -----------  ----------------------   
                2024      2023       2024         2024        2023   
              --------  --------  -----------  ----------  ----------   
North   
 America      $187,382  $187,240  $   175,691  $  669,946  $  724,481   
Asia           194,744   169,700      163,212     661,854     713,571   
Europe          32,302    47,501       34,892     147,560     212,368   
Other              975       830          422       2,682       5,390   
               -------   -------      -------   ---------   ---------   
Total         $415,403  $405,271  $   374,217  $1,482,042  $1,655,810   
               =======   =======      =======   =========   =========   
   
   
   
ADVANCED ENERGY INDUSTRIES, INC.   
SELECTED OTHER DATA (UNAUDITED)   
(in thousands)   
   
   
Reconciliation of   
Non-GAAP measure -   
Operating expenses and   
operating income,   
excluding certain   
items                                Three Months Ended                     Year Ended   
                          ----------------------------------------  --------------------------   
                                                       September   
                                 December 31,             30,              December 31,   
                          --------------------------  ------------  --------------------------   
                            2024          2023            2024        2024          2023   
                          --------      --------      ------------  --------      --------   
Gross profit from   
 continuing operations,   
 as reported              $154,705      $142,866      $134,068      $529,343      $592,398   
Adjustments to gross   
profit:   
   Stock-based   
    compensation             1,063           472         1,046         3,994         2,059   
   Facility expansion,   
    relocation costs and   
    other                    2,084         1,146           868         4,421         2,334   
   Acquisition-related   
    costs                       --            44            --           (13)          238   
                           -------       -------       -------       -------       -------   
Non-GAAP gross profit      157,852       144,528       135,982       537,745       597,029   
                           -------       -------       -------       -------       -------   
Non-GAAP gross margin         38.0%         35.7%         36.3%         36.3%         36.1%   
   
Operating expenses from   
 continuing operations,   
 as reported               120,695       129,096       145,116       492,736       478,704   
Adjustments:   
   Amortization of   
    intangible assets       (5,527)       (7,068)       (6,772)      (26,046)      (28,254)   
   Stock-based   
    compensation           (10,574)       (7,716)      (10,868)      (41,946)      (28,942)   
   Acquisition-related   
    costs                   (1,184)       (1,372)       (1,581)       (5,965)       (4,026)   
   Facility expansion,   
    relocation costs and   
    other                     (734)           --          (488)       (1,222)         (189)   
   Restructuring, asset   
    impairments, and   
    other charges             (902)      (18,071)      (28,546)      (30,318)      (26,977)   
                           -------       -------       -------       -------       -------   
Non-GAAP operating   
 expenses                  101,774        94,869        96,861       387,239       390,316   
                           -------       -------       -------       -------       -------   
Non-GAAP operating   
 income                   $ 56,078      $ 49,659      $ 39,121      $150,506      $206,713   
                           =======       =======       =======       =======       =======   
Non-GAAP operating   
 margin                       13.5%         12.3%         10.5%         10.2%         12.5%   
   
   
   
ADVANCED ENERGY INDUSTRIES, INC.   
SELECTED OTHER DATA (UNAUDITED)   
(in thousands, except per share data)   
   
   
Reconciliation of   
Non-GAAP measure -   
Income excluding   
certain items                   Three Months Ended               Year Ended   
                          -------------------------------  ----------------------   
                                                September   
                              December 31,         30,          December 31,   
                          --------------------  ---------  ----------------------   
                            2024       2023       2024       2024       2023   
                          --------   --------   ---------  --------   --------   
Income (loss) from   
 continuing operations,   
 less non-controlling   
 interest, net of income   
 tax                      $ 49,062   $ 37,891   $(14,147)  $ 56,306   $130,749   
Adjustments:   
   Amortization of   
    intangible assets        5,527      7,068      6,772     26,046     28,254   
   Acquisition-related   
    costs                    1,184      1,416      1,581      5,952      4,264   
   Facility expansion,   
    relocation costs,   
    and other                2,818      1,146      1,356      5,643      2,523   
   Restructuring, asset   
    impairments, and   
    other charges              902     18,071     28,546     30,318     26,977   
   Unrealized foreign   
    currency loss   
    (gain)                  (4,203)     2,728      3,993     (3,512)       (89)   
   Other costs included   
    in other income   
    (expense), net            (853)        --      3,665      2,812     (1,516)   
   Tax effect of   
    non-GAAP   
    adjustments,   
    including certain   
    discrete tax   
    benefits               (14,271)   (28,030)    (4,172)   (19,563)   (31,303)   
                           -------    -------    -------    -------    -------   
Non-GAAP income, net of   
 income tax, excluding   
 stock-based   
 compensation               40,166     40,290     27,594    104,002    159,859   
Stock-based   
 compensation, net of   
 tax                         9,193      6,387      9,412     36,292     24,181   
                           -------    -------    -------    -------    -------   
Non-GAAP income, net of   
 income tax               $ 49,359   $ 46,677   $ 37,006   $140,294   $184,040   
                           =======    =======    =======    =======    =======   
   
Reconciliation of   
Non-GAAP measure -   
Weighted-average common   
shares adjusted for   
stock awards                    Three Months Ended               Year Ended   
                          -------------------------------  ----------------------   
                                                September   
                              December 31,         30,          December 31,   
                          --------------------  ---------  ----------------------   
                            2024       2023       2024       2024       2023   
                          --------   --------   ---------  --------   --------   
Diluted weighted-average   
 common shares   
 outstanding                38,000     37,585     37,532     37,839     37,750   
Dilutive effect of   
stock awards                    --         --        360         --         --   
                           -------    -------    -------    -------    -------   
Non-GAAP diluted   
 weighted-average common   
 shares outstanding         38,000     37,585     37,892     37,839     37,750   
                           =======    =======    =======    =======    =======   
   
   
   
Reconciliation   
of non-GAAP   
measure - per   
share earnings   
excluding   
certain items         Three Months Ended       Year Ended   
                   -------------------------  ------------   
                                  September   
                   December 31,      30,      December 31,   
                   ------------  -----------  ------------   
                   2024   2023      2024      2024   2023   
                   -----  -----  -----------  -----  -----   
Diluted earnings   
 (loss) per share   
 from continuing   
 operations, as   
 reported          $1.29  $1.01  $    (0.38)  $1.49  $3.46   
Add back:   
   Per share   
    impact of   
    non-GAAP   
    adjustments,   
    net of tax      0.01   0.23        1.36    2.22   1.42   
                    ----   ----      ------    ----   ----   
Non-GAAP earnings   
 per share         $1.30  $1.24  $     0.98   $3.71  $4.88   
                    ====   ====      ======    ====   ====   
   
   
   
Reconciliation of Q1 2025 Guidance   
                                           Low End          High End   
                                        --------------  ----------------   
   
Revenue                                  $372 million     $412 million   
   
Reconciliation of non-GAAP earnings   
per share   
GAAP earnings per share                 $        0.23   $        0.73   
   Stock-based compensation                      0.35            0.35   
   Amortization of intangible assets             0.15            0.15   
   Restructuring, asset impairments,   
    and other charges                            0.17            0.17   
   Tax effects of excluded items                (0.12)          (0.12)   
                                            ---------       ---------   
Non-GAAP earnings per share             $        0.78   $        1.28   
                                            =========       =========   
 
```

View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20250212434708/en/

CONTACT:

For more information, contact:

Andrew Huang

Advanced Energy Industries, Inc.

970-407-6555

ir@aei.com

**(21:01 GMT)** \*Advanced Energy 4Q Rev $415.4M >AEIS

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250212012014:0/)
