---
title: "Global Forex and Fixed Income Roundup: Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-12 23:49:00"
summary: "The latest Market Talks covering FX and Fixed Income. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.1049 ET - The U.K. Debt Management Office has lowered supply of long-dated gilts in recent years as demand for the assets has been falling, Barclays fixed income strategist Moyeen Islam says in..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The latest Market Talks covering FX and Fixed Income. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.

1049 ET - The U.K. Debt Management Office has lowered supply of long-dated gilts in recent years as demand for the assets has been falling, Barclays fixed income strategist Moyeen Islam says in a note. "U.K. gilt supply has seen its average maturity shorten as ultra-long... supply has been cut back heavily," Islam says. The legacy of previous issuances of long-dated bonds remains, however. In the late 1990s and early 2000s, supply was "deliberately skewed" towards long-dated gilts and inflation-linked gilts, he says. (miriam.mukuru@wsj.com)

1004 ET - The conclusion from the January U.S. CPI numbers is clear: the Federal Reserve should not cut interest rates, says Janus Henderson Investors' Dan Siluk in a note. "No matter how the Fed breaks down the data--aggregate, core or super core--they were all above expectations," says the head of global short duration and liquidity. While consumer price indices are notorious for seasonal fluctuations and distortions at the start of the year, the labor market is clearly stable and economic conditions do not justify easing conditions, he says. "Everything indicates that the neutral interest rate should be higher." (emese.bartha@wsj.com)

0959 ET - The U.S. January consumer price index report is a big problem for the Federal Reserve, says Northlight Asset Management's Chris Zaccarelli in a note. "Not only did all metrics jump higher, but we are squarely in the 3's on the year-over-year numbers," the chief investment officer says. The increase in inflation metrics completely takes away the ability of the Fed to cut rates, he says. "Although it's too early to predict that they will begin raising rates any time soon, the market is going to start seriously considering that the next move the Fed makes." Even if it is in late 2025 or early 2026, it is going to be a hike and not a cut, he says. (emese.bartha@wsj.com)

0950 ET - The U.K. economic growth outlook has weakened but sterling could still outpeform the euro this year given problems facing the eurozone, Rabobank forex strategist Jane Foley says in a note. The EU faces further action from President Trump after he announced tariffs on steel and aluminum imports, she says. This could "endanger the region's fragile growth outlook further." Since U.S. data indicate a trade surplus with the U.K., tariffs appear less of a threat for Britain. Rabobank expects EUR/GBP to fall to 0.8150 by year-end, from 0.8334 currently. However, in the coming months it sees scope for range trading between 0.83-0.84 as the worsened U.K. outlook and last month's U.K. government-bond selloff has dented its confidence in sterling. (renae.dyer@wsj.com)

0915 ET - A small increase in the U.S. CPI in January sparks a sharp rally on Treasury yields and the dollar, as it reduces odds that the Fed will resume interest-rate cutting anytime soon. CME data shows fed fund futures pricing 32% odds of no cuts this year, up from 20% yesterday and 10% a week ago. "Disinflationary progress has clearly stalled over the last few months, and today's data moved the needle in the wrong direction," AllianceBernstein's Eric Winograd writes. "None of the 3-, 6- or 12-month run rates of inflation is moving toward the Fed's target." The 10-year Treasury yield is at 4.64% and the WSJ Dollar Index rises 0.5%. (paulo.trevisani@wsj.com; @ptrevisani)

0907 ET - Yields on U.K. government bonds rise, tracking U.S. Treasury yields, after U.S. inflation data for January came in stronger than expected, lowering the chances of the U.S. Federal Reserve cutting interest rates. U.S. annual headline inflation accelerated to 3.0% in January from 2.9% in December, above the consensus forecast of 2.9% by economists in a WSJ poll. "Given today's inflation numbers, it is questionable whether the Fed will be able to deliver on its two rate cuts planned for 2025," CMC Markets' Jochen Stanzl says in a note. The 10-year gilt yield rises to last trade at 4.560%, from 4.510% before the data, Tradeweb data show. The 10-year U.S. Treasury yield climbs 10 basis points on the day to last trade at 4.631%. (miriam.mukuru@wsj.com)

0906 ET - January's hotter-than-expected inflation fuels hawkish expectations. The Fed is now likely to be "on hold when it comes to interest rates for at least the remainder of 2025," Regan Capital's Skyler Weinand writes. The 12-month CPI accelerated to 3% from 2.9%, with the core moving to 3.3% from 3.2%. The small increase sparked a rally on Treasury yields and dollar indexes, as sticky inflation meets uncertainty about how Trump policies will affect prices. "Tariffs, fiscal deficits and uncertain tax and spending policies in 2025," are making it tougher for the Fed to cut rates, Weinand says. (paulo.trevisani@wsj.com; @ptrevisani)

0905 ET - The euro turns lower against the dollar after data showed U.S. inflation rose more than expected in January, with CPI up 0.5% month-on-month against expectations in a WSJ poll for 0.3%. The data weigh further on expectations for U.S. interest-rate cuts and increase the prospects that rates might not fall at all in 2025, especially given that President Trump's plans for tariffs and tax cuts are likely to be inflationary. U.S. money markets show a 25 basis-point rate cut is now not fully priced until December, LSEG data show. Meanwhile, concerns that Trump could soon announce tariffs on European imports is further weighing on the euro. The euro falls to $1.0317 after the data, from $1.0369 beforehand. (renae.dyer@wsj.com)

0900 ET - Bitcoin falls to a one-week low as the dollar rises along with U.S Treasury yields after U.S. inflation data came in higher than anticipated. Inflation rose 3.0% year-on-year and 0.5% month-on-month in January, versus expectations of 2.9% and 0.3% respectively in a WSJ survey of economists. In December inflation rose 2.9% year-on-year. Bitcoin falls 2.3% to a low of $94,121, compared to $96,517 before the data, according to LSEG. Higher inflation lessens prospects of Federal Reserve interest-rate cuts, weighing on risky assets, including cryptocurrencies. (renae.dyer@wsj.com)

0848 ET - Treasury yields and the dollar rally as U.S. January inflation comes a little hotter than forecast following hawkish remarks by Fed Chair Powell yesterday. The 12-month CPI reading accelerates to 3%, while economists surveyed by The Wall Street Journal expected it to keep December's 2.9% pace. The core reading was 3.3%, up from 3.2% in December and consensus of 3.1%. The data comes after Powell said before the Senate Banking Committee Tuesday that the Fed can wait before cutting interest rates. The 10-year yield is at 4.634% and the two-year at 4.380%, while the WSJ Dollar Index rises 0.5%, all gauges rising after the CPI report. (paulo.trevisani@wsj.com; @ptrevisani)

0844 ET - Eurozone government bond yields jump on above-expectations January U.S. CPI data, confirming the Federal Reserve's stance on not hurrying to cut interest rates. "The January U.S. CPI figures will be grim reading for the FOMC," says Pepperstone's Michael Brown in a note. The data could well have been influenced by one-off factors, however, such as the typical chunky price rises that are often seen at the start of the year, the senior research strategist says. Eurozone bond yields rise about 3 basis points in both the short and long ends of the curve versus levels before the data. The 10-year Bund yield rises 3.5 basis points to 2.478% from before, while the 2-year Schatz yield jumps to 2.146% from 2.115% beforehand, according to Tradeweb. (emese.bartha@wsj.com)

0835 ET - Gold futures slide ahead of crucial U.S. economic data, though they remain close to record highs. Futures are down 1.2% at $2,898.90 a troy ounce, having reached a record of $2,968.50 a troy ounce in the prior session. Gold's decline reflects Federal Reserve comments that the U.S. economy is robust and indicating no urgency to implement interest rate cuts, says SHR Capital's Salem Alremeithi. Higher rates typically damp investor enthusiasm for non-interest bearing bullion. That said, the Fed is ready to adjust rates should inflation fall or employment conditions worsen. Market focus is now on the Consumer Price Index report due today and Thursday's Producer Price Index data, he says. If inflation figures exceed expectations, it could exert further downward pressure on gold. Gold preciously found support from increased safe-haven demand, particularly after President Trump's aggressive tariff announcements, Alremeithi adds. (joseph.hoppe@wsj.com)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250212009660:0/)
