---
title: "Frontier Air's stock rallies as its rosier outlook, new routes wow Wall Street"
date: "2025-02-08 05:15:00"
summary: "By Steve GelsiFrontier expands its reach in Reno, Tucson, Antigua and Barbuda while issuing bullish 2025 forecastFrontier Group Holdings Inc. said it would break even or make money in the coming quarter, instead of posting a loss as expected by Wall Street analysts, as the airline continues building out its..."
categories:
  - "MarketWatch"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "MarketWatch"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Steve Gelsi

Frontier expands its reach in Reno, Tucson, Antigua and Barbuda while issuing bullish 2025 forecast

Frontier Group Holdings Inc. said it would break even or make money in the coming quarter, instead of posting a loss as expected by Wall Street analysts, as the airline continues building out its routes.

Frontier Group's stock (ULCC) rose 13.5% on Friday after the parent of carrier Frontier Airlines reported fourth-quarter earnings of 23 cents a share, well ahead of the FactSet consensus estimate of 13 cents a share.

Frontier plans to turn to Reno, Nev.; Tucson, Ariz.; and Antigua and Barbuda as it adds more routes. It is planning to expand service across the U.S. and the Caribbean by adding 16 routes.

Looking ahead at results in the current quarter, Frontier said it expects to break even or earn as much as 7 cents a share. That's better than the loss of 4 cents a share that Wall Street analysts have been expecting.

Frontier said it now expects to report adjusted 2025 earnings of at least $1 a share, well ahead of the analyst view of 58 cents a share.

Revenue at the airline that recently tried to buy bankrupt Spirit Airlines (SAVEQ) rose 12% in the fourth quarter to a record $1 billion, ahead of the analyst estimate of $984.3 million.

-Steve Gelsi

This content was created by MarketWatch, which is operated by Dow Jones & Co. MarketWatch is published independently from Dow Jones Newswires and The Wall Street Journal.

[MarketWatch](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_SN20250207009520:0/)
