---
title: "Market Talk Roundup: Latest on U.S. Politics"
date: "2025-02-14 01:20:00"
summary: "The latest Market Talks covering U.S. politics. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.1220 ET - Base metal prices are mixed, with LME three-month copper up 0.1% at $9,481.0 a metric ton and LME three-month aluminum down 0.9% at $2,602 a ton. Copper made some gains to sit..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The latest Market Talks covering U.S. politics. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.

1220 ET - Base metal prices are mixed, with LME three-month copper up 0.1% at $9,481.0 a metric ton and LME three-month aluminum down 0.9% at $2,602 a ton. Copper made some gains to sit 2.4% higher on week, while aluminum has slipped 0.7%. Trading volumes have been relatively thin ahead of expectations of the next round of President Trump's so-called reciprocal tariffs. On Monday, Trump imposed 25% tariffs on all aluminum and steel imports, in addition to previously announced 10% levies on Chinese imports and delayed 25% tariffs on Mexican and Canadian goods. The effect so far on LME prices has been relatively muted, though U.S. premiums have risen to accommodate expectations of higher prices. Trump plans reciprocal tariffs targeting any country that has imposed U.S. levies, promising to sign the order later Thursday. (joseph.hoppe@wsj.com)

1032 ET - Lean hog futures on the CME are 0.4% lower in early trading, with downward momentum coming after the government reported weaker export sales of U.S. pork. The USDA says that through the week ended February 6, pork sales totaled 24,900 metric tons. That's less than half of what was reported by the USDA last week, with sales to Mexico being only 5,000 tons. The White House says President Trump plans to unveil reciprocal tariffs for all trading partners later today. Live cattle is flat in early trade. (kirk.maltais@wsj.com)

1015 ET - A ceasefire in the Ukraine-Russia war could pave the way for a reconstruction project akin to the Marshall Plan that helped rebuild parts of Europe after the World War II or a common bond plan similar to the EU Recovery Fund launched after the Covid pandemic, UBS analysts say. The potential cost of rebuilding Ukraine has been estimated at $0.6 trillion, they note. A ceasefire would also lower energy prices, especially if the deal allows Russian gas to flow again, they add. Falling gas helps lower the price of electricity, which has been abnormally high relative to the U.S., the analysts say. UBS considers a ceasefire quite likely because of increasing signs of fatigue from Ukraine, rising distress in the Russian economy, and the pressure to reach a deal exerted by U.S. President Trump. (cristina.gallardo@wsj.com)

1002 ET - Global central banks are likely to keep moving in different directions, as the Fed remains worried about sticky inflation while others try to spur economic growth, TS Lombard's Dario Perkins writes. "Monetary divergence is finally here," he says. Odds that the Fed would cut rates this year are falling as inflation remains above target. Perkins says price increases are likely to slow later this year, but uncertainties stemming from Trump policies would keep the Fed on hold. "Such considerations are weaker outside the US." He says that, in other countries, "trade wars are a reason to cut interest rates faster." (paulo.trevisani@wsj.com; @ptrevisani)

0824 ET - Oil futures add to the previous session's losses on the possibility of Russia-Ukraine peace talks promoted by President Trump and expectations Trump will outline plans today for reciprocal trade tariffs on countries that impose duties on U.S. goods. Spartan Capital's Peter Cardillo sees "demand factors stemming from these tariffs" contributing to weaker crude, "however, we believe the very low end of the $70 level will likely hold." WTI is off 1.1% at $70.59 a barrel. Brent crude is 1.1% lower at $74.33 a barrel. (anthony.harrup@wsj.com)

0750 ET - A quick peace in Ukraine would bring about some positive albeit limited consequences for Europe's economy, Capital Economics' Andrew Kenningham says. The new administration in Washington is keen for a resolution to the three-year-old conflict, with President Trump speaking this week to his counterpart in Russia, Vladimir Putin. An end to the fighting would ease natural-gas prices in Europe as the Russian market reopens at least a little, Kenningham says. Sentiment among European businesses and consumers would also get a boost from a truce, he adds. European governments would likely need to spend more on defense in light of the continued threat from Russia, offering some scope for easing in Europe's budgets, Kenningham tells clients in a note. "This could help to support aggregate demand and give a lift to Europe's struggling industrial sector," he says. (joshua.kirby@wsj.com; @joshualeokirby)

0737 ET - Base metal prices fall, with LME three-month copper down 0.2% at $9,451 a metric ton and LME three-month aluminum down 0.6% at $2,611 a ton. President Trump's 25% tariffs on steel and aluminum imports have caused volatility including in the U.S. to LME copper premium, though this is likely to be excessive, Macquarie's Marcus Garvey says in a note. The tariffs operate through the re-imposition and extension of 2018's Section 232 tariffs, and implicitly the same mechanism can't be used to apply tariffs to other commodities at short notice as that would need a related Commerce Department investigation, Garvey writes. That said, prices of copper and other base metals remain vulnerable to either blanket tariffs, or country-specific tariffs that would hit a large proportion of U.S. imports, Garvey adds. (joseph.hoppe@wsj.com)

0735 ET - The euro pares gains against the dollar as optimism over a Ukraine ceasefire deal fades, Rabobank forex strategist Jane Foley says in a note. "What is glaringly obvious to European investors is the apparent absence of either Ukrainian or EU politicians in the arrangements that President Trump appears to be making towards bringing the conflict to an end," she says. There is also fears over Trump conceding too much to Russia and over coherence among NATO countries. The path to peace could prove a "messy process for Europe with outcomes that are not all euro positive." The euro rises 0.1% to $1.0398 after earlier hitting a one-week high of $1.0441, according to FactSet. (renae.dyer@wsj.com)

0707 ET - The NATO alliance must increase defense spending, not only because the U.S. is demanding it, but because "the threat coming from Russia and other adversaries is increasing," NATO's Secretary General Mark Rutte tells reports in Brussels. There is a "clear convergence" emerging among NATO members on the need to end the Ukraine-Russia war as soon as possible, and strengthen Ukraine ahead of potential ceasefire talks, he says. It is crucial that Ukraine is involved in any such talks, Rutte adds. Most European defense stocks are rising in midday trade, after some decreases in the early morning following a call between U.S. President Donald Trump and Russian President Vladimir Putin. BAE Systems' shares advance 2.9%, Rheinmetall shares are up 1.95%, shares in Leonardo rise 1.5% and Hensoldt shares are up 0.8%. (cristina.gallardo@wsj.com)

0428 ET - European defense stocks could see their valuations boosted by about 30% if the European members of NATO increase their defense spending to 3% of their gross domestic product, Citi's analyst Sam Burgess says. On Wednesday, U.S. Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth doubled down on President Trump's calls for European members of NATO to boost defense spending to 5% of their GDP. "If Russia emerges from a peace deal emboldened, we believe this is likely to make European nations--particularly those closer to Russia--feel less, rather than more, secure," Burgess writes in a research note. "In the end, the paradox of a peace may be that it catalyzes even higher European defense spending." (cristina.gallardo@wsj.com)

0427 ET - Central and eastern European currencies could continue to rise on optimism over a Ukraine-Russia peace deal, ING's Frantisek Taborsky says in a note. President Trump said he held a constructive phone call Wednesday with his Russian counterpart Vladimir Putin about a ceasefire in Ukraine. Similar headlines could be forthcoming, supporting central and eastern European currencies, Taborsky says. These currencies are also supported by a higher euro versus the dollar and improving rate differentials, he says. "We expect the current rally to continue until at least the end of the week." EUR/PLN hit a seven-year low of 4.1567 earlier, according to FactSet. EUR/HUF reached a 16-week low of 400.960 earlier. (renae.dyer@wsj.com)

0413 ET - Oil prices extend the previous trading session's losses on news that U.S. President Trump and Russia's Vladimir Putin agreed to open talks to end the war in Ukraine. Brent crude is down 0.5% to $74.80 a barrel, while WTI falls 0.6% to $70.97 a barrel. Both benchmarks closed more than 2% lower on Wednesday, pressured by prospects of lower supply risks and speculation over a potential easing of restrictions on Russian producers. Meanwhile, hotter-than-expected inflation data in the U.S. is also weighing on sentiment, upholding the Federal Reserve's more cautious stance on interest-rate cuts. (giulia.petroni@wsj.com)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250213012683:0/)
