---
title: "Health Care Roundup: Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-11 05:50:00"
summary: "The latest Market Talks covering the Health Care sector. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires at 4:20 ET, 12:20 ET and 16:50 ET.1047 ET - Biotechnology is likely to stay resilient despite tariffs, Benchmark analyst Bruce Jackson expects. While development costs may rise, there could be more mergers and acquisitions..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The latest Market Talks covering the Health Care sector. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires at 4:20 ET, 12:20 ET and 16:50 ET.

1047 ET - Biotechnology is likely to stay resilient despite tariffs, Benchmark analyst Bruce Jackson expects. While development costs may rise, there could be more mergers and acquisitions in the industry if there is less scrutiny from the Federal Trade Commission under the Trump administration. Pharma companies looking to bolster pipelines could also drive merger activity. The metabolic, central nervous system and oncology biotech industries are expected to grow while vaccines and rare diseases are more likely to face challenges. (katherine.hamilton@wsj.com)

1043 ET - Tariffs could lead to shortages and higher prices for pharmaceuticals and medical devices, Benchmark analyst Bruce Jackson says. Trump has said his tariffs are intended to bring jobs back to the U.S., but pharmaceutical companies may be hesitant to build manufacturing capacity domestically, especially in areas where profit margins are thin, like generic drugs and hospital supplies, Jackson says. It could also take up to two years to start making medical equipment in the U.S., and up to five years to launch drug manufacturing facilities, Jackson adds. (katherine.hamilton@wsj.com)

0907 ET - Investors have been shying away from Jamieson Wellness as they look for the safer haven of larger cap companies, but TD Cowen's Derek Lessard thinks the pullback is unwarranted. So far in the year, the stock has pulled back 15% to C$31.11, nearly wiping out the gains of the past 52 weeks. But there are plenty of positives to drive the stock, including strong contributions from the Chinese market. "With no negative operational news, our positive outlook on 4Q and longer-term is unchanged," he says in a report. The fundamentals are the same, and with the stock down, it "makes the pullback an attractive buying opportunity." (adriano.marchese@wsj.com)

0408 ET - Innovent Biologics' near-term stock performance may depend on the approval and sales of its potential blockbuster drug Mazdutide in 1H2025, according to Deutsche Bank Research analyst Cyrus Ng in a commentary. The biotech company's share price has rebounded 14% since January 25, outperforming its peers' average of 4.9% during the same period, Ng says. However, revenue growth slowed in Q4 compared to the previous quarter, although 2024 product sales remain in line with expectations, the analyst notes. Ng maintains a buy rating and a target price of HK$49.00. Shares were last up 0.3% at HK$36.35. (tracy.qu@wsj.com)

0016 ET - Safe Fertility Group's earnings will likely disappoint again in 4Q owing to declining revenue, narrower gross margins and a rising SG&A expenses-to-sales ratio, Thanachart Securities' Siriporn Arunothai says. The company's business continued to slow in 2H last year, likely because of Thailand's soft economy and increasing competition, the analyst says. Its strategy to be more aggressive in marketing with new agents and a business development team resulted in high selling, general and administrative expenses. The brokerage cuts its 2024-2027 earnings forecasts for the company by 11%-17%. It lowers the target price to THB11.00 from THB16.50, with an unchanged buy rating. Shares are 0.5% higher at THB9.50. (ronnie.harui@wsj.com)

1838 ET - Macquarie serves up two contrarian ideas for investors as Australia's corporate-earnings season extends into its second week. It believes the market likely fears a CSL miss, given the pharmaceutical company's stock hasn't yet arrested a share-price slide that began in July and some analysts have cut forecasts. CSL's stock is down some 13% since July 23. "It should benefit from the lower AUD and pharma tends to outperform after RBA cuts," Macquarie says. Many economists expect Australia's central bank to cut interest rates this month, which would be the first time since inflation ran hot in the pandemic's aftermath. Macquarie is also bullish about property company Mirvac, saying it would also benefit from rate cuts. (david.winning@wsj.com; @dwinningWSJ)

1711 ET - Sigma Healthcare is already showing early benefits from its merger with Chemist Warehouse, and Jefferies is optimistic that the good news will continue. Sigma upgraded its FY 2025 guidance for normalized Ebit to A$64 million-A$70 million, from a prior target of A$50 million-A$60 million. Jefferies expects A$67.2 million. "We believe margin expansion within Sigma can continue," says analyst David Stanton. Jefferies lifts its price target on Sigma by 4.9% to A$2.15/share, although that's below the current stock price of A$2.92 and the key reason why the bank stays at underperform. (david.winning@wsj.com; @dwinningWSJ)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250210011298:0/)
