---
title: "Global Commodities Roundup: Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-08 05:15:00"
summary: "The latest Market Talks covering Commodities. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.1557 ET - Lean hog futures on the CME finish up 0.4% to 92.55 cents a pound — while live cattle futures close unchanged at $1.974 a pound. For livestock, managed money fund traders have amassed..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The latest Market Talks covering Commodities. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.

1557 ET - Lean hog futures on the CME finish up 0.4% to 92.55 cents a pound — while live cattle futures close unchanged at $1.974 a pound. For livestock, managed money fund traders have amassed a large long position in both cattle and hogs. While this means that funds expect hog and cattle prices to go up, it's also why trading volumes were light on Friday — because many are unwilling to risk money on new positions in the event of a surprise tariff-related announcement by President Trump over the weekend. "The uncertainty is definitely adding another element of volatility to the livestock markets," says livestock trader Dan Norcini. "In truth, in my view, the only people who like this sort of thing are the pestilential algo players." (kirk.maltais@wsj.com)

1542 ET - U.S. natural gas futures settle lower in choppy trade, while holding out for a weekly gain as weather forecasts show colder temperatures appearing after a mild first week of February. The EIA reported a 174 Bcf drawdown in underground storage, leaving the deficit versus the five-year average intact at 111 Bcf, "something that we haven't seen in the natural gas market in the U.S. for a very long time," says Phil Flynn of the Price Futures Group. The market is showing some conflicting chart patterns, he says, with bearish traders eyeing a downside gap after a close above resistance. "Trend followers must be long, but at the end of the day it may come down to the weather and how cold it's going to be in February," he adds. The Nymex front month settles down 2.9% at $3.309/mmBtu and is up 8.7% on the week. (anthony.harrup@wsj.com)

1538 ET - Oil futures fall for a third consecutive week as the market grappled with complications from postponed U.S. tariffs on oil from Canada and Mexico, Chinese retaliatory tariffs on U.S. oil and gas, OPEC+ sticking with its plan to start raising output in April and an oversized buildup in U.S. crude oil stocks. "Some of the impact this week has been more from the growth in inventories," says Kenny Zhu of Global X. "I think folks have been worried about what the tariff impact might actually be, so there's a bit of front-running of imports to try to bring in those barrels in front of the trigger date. Luckily that was pushed back." WTI settles up 0.6% at $71 a barrel Brent up 0.5% at $74.66 a barrel, and are down 2.1% and 1.3%, respectively, on the week. (anthony.harrup@wsj.com)

1521 ET - The conditions for corn growing in Argentina have improved thanks to better soil conditions. Corn led CBOT grains lower throughout the day, and government agencies in the country say that better rain has had a positive effect on the health of crops. "The Buenos Aires Exchange said late planted corn in southern Cordoba and western Buenos Aires province have seen a 21% improvement in adequate to optimal soil moisture, and said that early harvesting has begun in Entre Rios province," says Charlie Sernatinger of Marex in a note. If Argentina's crop production manages to come in at or above forecasts, then it may prove to be stiff competition to corn grown in the U.S. due to more-competitive pricing. (kirk.maltais@wsj.com)

1510 ET - Gold briefly climbs to new intraday highs over $2,900 a troy ounce following economic data early in the session, before ending up 0.4% to $2,867.30 an ounce. It's the second-highest ever close. Analysts are calling for gold to continue its rise to $3,000 an ounce. "The gold bull market looks set to continue under Trump 2.0 with trade wars and geopolitical tensions reinforcing the reserve diversification/de-dollarization trend," Citi says in a note. SPDR Gold rises 0.3%. (kirk.maltais@wsj.com)

1457 ET - The USDA says this week that it expects farmers to finish 2025 with a net income of$180.1 billion. That would be up $41 billion over last year's figure, which the USDA also revised lower to $139.1 billion. However, cash receipts from crop sales are not expected to increase, actually inching lower from 2024. Instead, the USDA says that direct government payments to farmers is expected to more than triple in 2025, to $42.4 billion. The USDA's projection comes as uncertainty surrounding President Trump's tariffs and foreign policy builds — with 'reciprocal' tariffs said to be coming next week for a yet unidentified set of countries. Most-active corn on the CBOT is down 1.7%, soybeans down 1.1%, and wheat off 1%. (kirk.maltais@wsj.com)

1401 ET - With the weekend approaching, grain traders are selling CBOT grain futures in afternoon trade--this after President Trump told reporters at the White House that new "reciprocal" tariffs were planned to be announced next week. Trump did not say what countries would be targeted with these tariffs--but in grains, traders are selling to pare their risk. "The U.S. news cycle has dramatically changed with President Trump," says AgResource in a note. "There is no natural end to the workweek, and President Trump is willing to make announcements at any time." Most-active corn is down 1.6%, while soybeans are down 1.1% and wheat falls 1.1%. (kirk.maltais@wsj.com)

1352 ET [Dow Jones]--The number of rigs drilling for oil in the U.S. edged up by one this week to 480, and was down by 19 from the same time last year, oil services company Baker Hughes reports. Rigs drilling for natural gas rose by two to 100, compared with 121 a year ago. The EIA estimates that U.S. oil production will average 13.5 million barrels a day this year versus 13.2 million b/d in 2024, with growth slowing to less than 1% in 2026. While oil companies appreciate that the Trump administration is friendly to the industry with deregulation and faster permitting, "that's only going to do so much," says Kenny Zhu of Global X. "If the market fundamentals aren't there, the prices and projections for demand are not where they need to be, I think that will ultimately be the driving factor." (anthony.harrup@wsj.com)

1204 ET - Live cattle futures on the CME are up 0.1%, inching higher after falling 2.2% yesterday. "Fund liquidation resumed on Thursday," says AgResource in a note, adding that boxed beef prices were mixed yesterday, which also put some pressure on cattle futures. Trading is tentative as managed money traders hold a large net long position in cattle - which traders fear makes the contract susceptible to a large downturn if negative news hits the market, says AgResource. The CFTC will release updated Commitment of Traders data this afternoon. Lean hogs are also a nudge higher, with the most-active contract up 0.2%. (kirk.maltais@wsj.com)

1127 ET - Eventual U.S. tariffs on imports of Canadian and Mexican oil--of 10% and 25%, respectively--would alter North American crude flows significantly, sending some oil elsewhere and raising regional prices, Dylan White of Wood MacKenzie says in a note. The steeper tariffs on Mexico would likely move heavy Maya crude away from the U.S. to Europe and Asia. And while Canadian crude would continue to be consumed by U.S. midcontinent and Gulf Coast refiners, the Trans Mountain Pipeline would facilitate increased shipments of Canadian crude to Asia, he says. "Beyond that, we expect the higher tariff costs will get backed into wider crude differentials in Mexico and Canada."(anthony.harrup@wsj.com)

1122 ET - Some customers who can switch from shell eggs to liquid eggs are trying to do that now, Chief Operating Officer Jeff Zadoks says in an earnings call. There's not enough supply available to meet the customer demand for liquid eggs, he added, given that liquid egg prices aren't as inflated. "As our supply comes back, that's something that we can take advantage of in the short term and hopefully in the medium to long-term to continue to add to our volumes," Zadoks says. Bird flu has ravaged U.S. poultry farms, and led to high egg prices. (roshan.fernandez@wsj.com)

1114 ET - Gold extends gains further above $2,900 an ounce after consumer confidence slips on worries about near-term inflation. Gold had risen earlier on the January jobs data. President Trump's moves early in his second term, including an immigration crackdown and tariff threats are raising inflation worries and making safe havens like gold more appealing for investors looking ahead, says Commerzbank in a note. "The [World Gold Council] expects investment demand to be higher in 2025 than last year," says the firm. "Lower interest rates, highly valued stock markets, a weaker U.S. dollar and geopolitical risks are cited as drivers." Gold is up 0.9%. (kirk.maltais@wsj.com)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250207010301:0/)
