---
title: "Global Equities Roundup: Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-13 17:25:00"
summary: "The latest Market Talks covering Equities. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.0925 GMT - Siemens's standout positive in its solid first-quarter results was the turnaround in the digital industries segment, Quilter Cheviot analyst Jarek Pominkiewicz says in a research note. The German conglomerate saw a return in..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The latest Market Talks covering Equities. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.

0925 GMT - Siemens's standout positive in its solid first-quarter results was the turnaround in the digital industries segment, Quilter Cheviot analyst Jarek Pominkiewicz says in a research note. The German conglomerate saw a return in order growth in the segment and although orders in Germany were down, the recovery in China is encouraging, the analyst says. Germany is expected to follow suit later in 2025, he adds. "The end of destocking in Chinese automation should support a cyclical recovery in digital industries' automation business," Pominkiewicz says. Shares trade 5.4% higher at 223.60 euros. (nina.kienle@wsj.com)

0924 GMT - Barclays's share drop is a buying opportunity, JP Morgan Cazenove says in a research note. The stock fell following 4Q results despite beating estimates, as expectations were already high with shares up 15% year to date, analysts Kian Abouhossein and Sheel Shah write. The company was also hit by restructuring costs that exceeded consensus, which offset revenue momentum in the investment banking division, they add. Still, the British bank is one of analysts' top picks in Europe given its sweet spot exposure to European and U.S. trends. Shares fall 5.2% to 292 pence. (elena.vardon@wsj.com)

0922 GMT - Renishaw surprised analysts with the scale of its slowdown in the second quarter of its fiscal year, Jefferies said in a research note. The British company makes manufacturing technologies ranging from semiconductor production equipment to robotics. Renishaw posted quarter-on-quarter declines in revenue and adjusted profit before tax of 3.7%and 31%, respectively. The company suggested that the first-quarter results may have been flattered by hedging contracts, while the second-quarter figures were impacted by one-off supply chain issues and a more adverse revenue mix, the analysts say. Shares in London are down 7.8% at 33 pounds. (cristina.gallardo@wsj.com)

0910 GMT - Unilever shares drop after a subdued near-term outlook although results were broadly in line with expectations, Interactive Investor analyst Keith Bowman says in a note. Consumers still face a tough backdrop and investments mean costs are pressuring margins, Bowman says. Nevertheless, the consumer group's performance represents a fourth consecutive quarter of underlying volume growth above 2%, according to Bowman. He lists the buyback, ice-cream exit, dividend and pursuit of cost savings as positives. Strong brands and the push to refocus the portfolio and enhance productivity mean analyst consensus opinion remains a "cautious buy," he says. Shares trade 6.55% lower at 44.40 pounds. (sarah.sloat@wsj.com)

0907 GMT - Delivery Hero's full-year 2025 guidance points to another year of improved profitability and cash flow generation, Jefferies analysts write. The guidance is well-aligned with consensus expectations, they say. The German food-delivery company comfortably met its full-year 2024 guidance after a strong fourth-quarter, they write. Delivery Hero reported a slowdown in growth in Asia but this was not a surprise to investors, they write. The company is expected to use its call with analysts later in the day to explain its turnaround strategy in South Korea, the analysts add. Shares trade up 6.6% at 28.01 euros. (adam.whittaker@wsj.com)

0906 GMT - Malaysia's Kuala Lumpur Composite Index closed 0.7% lower at 1592.28. Market sentiment turned cautious as investors assessed Fed Chair Jerome Powell's remarks overnight, which suggested a more measured approach to interest rate cuts, while the central bank prioritizes controlling inflation, TA Securities analyst Stephen Soo says in a note. Soo pegs the KLCI's support at 1550 and resistance at 1605. Among decliners, Mr. D.I.Y. Group was 4.2% lower and 99 Speed Mart Retail lost 2.7%. Meanwhile, Sunway Bhd. rose 2.0% and MISC Bhd. was 2.3% higher. (yingxian.wong@wsj.com)

0904 GMT - Michelin's guidance for 2025 offers some relief given that the company points to rising earnings, Deutsche Bank's Christoph Laskawi says in a note. The French tire maker reported revenue and earnings that were in line with expectations, while its cash generation beat forecasts, the analyst says. More importantly, the company guided for growing earnings in 2025, which is in line with expectations but should provide relief to those who feared worse, Laskawi says. Michelin didn't hint at an extension to its 1 billion-euro buyback program, but this could come in the second half of the year, the analyst says. Shares jump 5.2%. (adria.calatayud@wsj.com)DSM-Firmenich's underlying Ebitda guidance for 2025 is for at least 2.4 billion euros. "DSM-Firmenich's Share Buyback Was a Welcome Surprise — Market Talk," at 0822 GMT, misstated the guidance figure.

0849 GMT - European stocks open higher amid expectations of a truce in Ukraine after President Trump said he is ready to negotiate with Russia. Although it is unclear whether a truce in the conflict would lead to a removal of sanctions on Russia and improved energy supply for Europe, investors could see it as a logical next step, Barclays analysts say in a research note. This could lift sentiment on the energy intensive sectors and manufacturing plays, the bank says. DAX, Germany's index of blue chips, jumps 1% in early trade with Siemens, BASF and auto makers Mercedes-Benz, Volkswagen and BMW among the biggest gainers. The Euro Stoxx 50 is up 0.90%, while France's CAC 40 climbs 0.87% and Switzerland's leading index rises 0.79%. (maitane.sardon@wsj.com)

0850 GMT - MGM China Holdings' market-share gains and potential dividend payout could support near-term stability for the stock, according to Citi analysts in a research note. The Macau casino operator's 4Q net revenue grew about 3%, and the company reported record-high Ebitda for 2024, the analysts note. MGM's market share increased 0.9 percentage point on quarter to about 15.6% in 4Q. Citi expects MGM China's board to declare a final dividend in mid-March and maintain its around 50% payout ratio. The implied dividend yield of about 6% would provide investors with downside risk protection in the near term, the analysts say. Citi keeps a buy rating with a target price of HK$13.25. Shares closed 6.5% higher at HK$10.34. (tracy.qu@wsj.com)

0846 GMT - Nestle's turnaround efforts will take time to pay off amid a challenging cost backdrop, Barclays analysts say in a research note. The Swiss maker of KitKat chocolate bars and Nescafe coffee is likely to face questions on its profitability in light of cost inflation, the analysts say. The company expects underlying trading operating profit margin to be 16% or above this year. However, the key issue is how to square that target with rising cost inflation and advertising-and-promotional spending that is increasing slowly, according to Barclays. "Nestle is making early progress but the inflation and consumer backdrop remain challenging," the analysts say. (adria.calatayud@wsj.com)

0844 GMT - Unilever shares tumble at the open but results offer some bright spots, even though 4.0% underlying sales growth in the fourth quarter fell slightly short of expectations and the near-term outlook is muted. "Markets are subdued and 1Q 2025 will be softer, but Unilever's share is improving and (the company) reiterated margin growth for the year, albeit comps mean lower in 1H as we expected," Barclays analysts say in a note. Barclays also likes the buyback news, and notes that the consumer giant's productivity program is running ahead of schedule. Shares trade 6.5% lower at 44.41 pounds. (sarah.sloat@wsj.com)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250213004575:0/)
