---
title: "Auto & Transport Roundup: Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-10 17:20:00"
summary: "The latest Market Talks covering the Auto and Transport sector. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires at 4:20 ET, 12:20 ET and 16:50 ET.0827 GMT - Chinese automakers may take the lead in incorporating AI innovations and democratizing these technologies in mass-market cars, said Paul Gong, UBS head of China..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The latest Market Talks covering the Auto and Transport sector. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires at 4:20 ET, 12:20 ET and 16:50 ET.

0827 GMT - Chinese automakers may take the lead in incorporating AI innovations and democratizing these technologies in mass-market cars, said Paul Gong, UBS head of China autos research. "After the DeepSeek surprise during the Chinese New Year, intelligence initiatives could remain a key theme among auto stocks," he says. Traditional carmakers will likely announce more collaborations with AI companies in the coming months ride the momentum, he adds. Gong believes that the technological edge in the auto sector will likely shift from electrification to intelligence with rising awareness and adoption of AI. He notes that smart cockpits powered by AI algorithms could provide a sustainable competitive edge, helping automakers gain market share. Meanwhile, AI could gradually lead to higher manufacturing productivity, boosting carmakers' margins in the long term, he adds. (sherry.qin@wsj.com)

0650 GMT - Mahindra & Mahindra remains Nomura's top original equipment manufacturer pick in India's auto and auto-parts sector, the brokerage's analysts say in a research report. Consumers' initial response to the automaker's battery EVs is strong, say the analysts. They see upside potential to Nomura's monthly sales estimates of 3,000 units for FY 2026 and 7,000 units for FY 2027. With further traction in demand for Mahindra & Mahindra's tractors and market share, the brokerage lifts its FY 2025 growth estimate for the company to 10% from 7%. It raises the stock's target price to INR3,681.00 from INR3,664.00 with an unchanged buy rating. Shares are 0.3% lower at INR3,189.35. (ronnie.harui@wsj.com)

0332 GMT - HD Korea Shipbuilding & Offshore Engineering seems undervalued given the higher valuation of its unlisted subsidiary, HD Hyundai Samho Heavy Industries, Nomura analyst Eon Hwang writes in a note. Hwang values the subsidiary at KRW10 trillion, up from KRW9 trillion previously, which accounts for 48% of the parent's overall value. He expects operating profit of the subsidiary to increase 21% to KRW1 trillion for 2025 thanks to higher shipbuilding prices, despite a possible drop in new contract wins this year due to last year's high comparison base and limited capacity. Nomura raises its stock target for the parent by 17% to KRW280,000 and keeps a buy rating. Shares are 1.1% lower at KRW223,000. (kwanwoo.jun@wsj.com)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250210002189:0/)
