---
title: "Armistice Capital Investors Get IOUs Instead of Cash After Seeking Fund Exit, Investor Letter Says — WSJ"
date: "2025-02-13 18:30:00"
summary: "By Peter RudegeairArmistice Capital delivered the goods to investors for over a dozen years. The hedge fund outperformed rivals in 2024, and its record since inception trounces the broader stock market.What the firm hasn't delivered is much cash to investors who wanted out late last year. It mostly gave them..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Peter Rudegeair

Armistice Capital delivered the goods to investors for over a dozen years. The hedge fund outperformed rivals in 2024, and its record since inception trounces the broader stock market.

What the firm hasn't delivered is much cash to investors who wanted out late last year. It mostly gave them the equivalent of IOUs instead, according to an investor letter viewed by The Wall Street Journal.

That usually happens at hedge funds that repeatedly lose money. At Armistice, it happened because the firm loaded up on thinly traded assets and sparked an outflow of investors after it announced new terms that would have made it harder for them to exit, people familiar with the firm said.

Now, some clients are waking up to the risks the firm was taking. The value of Armistice's holdings of those illiquid assets was disclosed once a year, and with a lag. The firm told clients who got the IOUs that it would likely take at least a year before they are fully cashed out.

For much of the past decade, hedge funds had fallen out of favor because of their uneven performance and high costs. They recently started attracting investor interest again after generating strong and unusually broad-based gains last year. A survey from Goldman Sachs found pension funds, endowments and other institutions ranked hedge funds as the most sought-after investments for 2025.

But knowing exactly what a hedge fund holds remains murky to investors by design. Even pedigreed funds can resort to unfriendly maneuvers when they run into trouble. Paloma Partners, one of the oldest active hedge-fund firms, issued IOUs to fleeing investors last year because it didn't have enough easy-to-sell assets.

Steven Boyd, a onetime McKinsey consultant and hedge-fund analyst, launched Armistice in 2012. Since then, Armistice's annualized return averaged 24.4%, with only one down year. As of the start of 2025, the firm's assets under management totaled about $2 billion.

For every $1 of capital Armistice managed late last year, it invested nearly $5, a big degree of borrowing even relative to other high-flying, stock-picking hedge funds. The bulk of Armistice's exposure was to biotech companies, among the most volatile stocks because their value depends on the results of unpredictable clinical trials and regulatory reviews for novel drugs and therapies.

Over time, the fund accumulated masses of warrants tied to the value of underlying biotech stocks, an even more volatile investment. Armistice's warrant holdings jumped at the end of 2023 to about $466 million, from $1.2 million at the end of 2022, according to documents viewed by the Journal. The firm used models to price these positions since there wasn't an active market for them.

Monthly disclosures to investors said Armistice could liquidate nearly all of its stock portfolio in 30 days or less. That assurance came with some notable fine print: Its analysis didn't factor in its warrants.

The firm gave investors a glimpse into the size of its warrant book in audited financial statements. Armistice estimated their value as of year-end, but those statements were typically released a few months later.

Investors who redeemed from Armistice in late 2023 received about half of their money back in cash. The rest was paid out in shares of a separate investment vehicle, known in the industry as a side pocket, consisting of illiquid assets including warrants.

Armistice's main fund gained 15.6% last year, beating other healthcare and generalist stock-picking funds. The value of the side pocket fell by nearly 40%.

On a regularly scheduled video call with investors in mid-October, Boyd previewed a coming change in terms that would lock up investors' money for all of 2025 and limit withdrawals thereafter.

He said the new terms would bring Armistice in line with those of competitors. He didn't mention liquidity issues or that Armistice previously gave investors side-pocket shares in lieu of cash.

"We have a track record of knowing when to double down, knowing when the soft pitch is coming our way and when to swing as hard as we can," Boyd said .

On Jan. 17, Boyd wrote to investors that the firm would pay about two-thirds of redemptions requested at the end of 2024 with shares in another side pocket. He said certain positions either couldn't be realized or if realized at the time, would be at values the firm determined were "at a discount to their true value." The firm subsequently predicted it would take 12 to 18 months before departing investors were fully cashed out.

For January, Armistice's main fund gained about 3%. The side pocket into which departing investors were diverted weeks earlier lost more than more than 10%.

Write to Peter Rudegeair at peter.rudegeair@wsj.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250213005158:0/)
