---
title: "Jamie Dimon Sounds off on Remote Work, Bureaucracy, 'Pablum and Bulls—-' — Barrons.com"
date: "2025-02-13 11:36:00"
summary: "By Rebecca UngarinoJPMorgan Chase Chief Executive Jamie Dimon has a lot on his mind.During an internal town-hall meeting in Ohio on Wednesday, Dimon offered up candid, lengthy thoughts about how his company has been operating lately, according to audio recordings of his remarks obtained by Barron's. He wants the bank..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Rebecca Ungarino

JPMorgan Chase Chief Executive Jamie Dimon has a lot on his mind.

During an internal town-hall meeting in Ohio on Wednesday, Dimon offered up candid, lengthy thoughts about how his company has been operating lately, according to audio recordings of his remarks obtained by Barron's. He wants the bank to move faster — so much so that he recently asked managers at the bank to make their departments 10% more efficient. When he heard that a project in JPMorgan's wealth management arm required 14 different committees' approvals, he said he felt "like firing 14 chairmen of committees."

He also addressed a hiring freeze after an employee who attended the town-hall said the company had pulled back on hires. "Regarding the comments on the hiring freeze, he was referring to working to keep headcount flat, not a freeze," a JPMorgan spokesperson said of Dimon's remarks in a statement later on Wednesday. "We continue to invest in hiring new professionals where appropriate and currently have 14,000 open positions."

Dimon described slow-moving decision-making and layers of checkpoints seeping into different parts of the firm he has led for two decades. He complained about employee performance reviews filled with "pablum and bulls---" that go straight "in the goddamn garbage can." He wondered whether employee training courses about legal and compliance issues are sucking up too much time, and offered an open invitation for employees to send him ideas about how to make the bank less bureaucratic.

He thinks the bank, while it is filled with people who are "nice to each other," probably overdoes it on the collaboration. And don't get him started on remote work: "I've had it with this stuff. I've been working seven days a goddamn week since Covid, and I come in, and — where is everybody else?"

And he really, really hates that he can't get in touch with people on Fridays, a popular day to work remotely. "Don't give me this s--- that work-from-home-Friday works," he said. "I call a lot of people on Fridays, and there's not a goddamn person you can get a hold of."

His comments, which were part of responses to two questions from employees, come during a period of unrest at JPMorgan over workplace policies. There has been intense debate inside the company over a new five-day in-office mandate, complaints about compensation on the heels of record profits, and employee fear and uncertainty prompted by layoffs. On Wednesday, Barron's reported the firm had started to cut jobs this month as part of a series of layoffs planned for 2025.

Earlier on Wednesday, Reuters reported parts of Dimon's comments, including a remark he made about an employee-led petition that calls on JPMorgan to reconsider its five-day office mandate. "I don't care how many people sign that fucking petition," Dimon said, according to Reuters.

Here are a few other things that were on his mind:

Why complaints about the return to office won't change his mind:

60% of Americans went to work everyday during Covid, and somehow, people who work in places...your manufacturing, who delivered your food, Who got the food, police, firemen, our branches. A lot of you had to come into work, and stuff like that. So the notion that everybody was working from home, and it's great — that was not true.

We've always had work from home. I'm not against working from home, OK? We have 10% of our people, mostly in mortgage, and certain call centers, who work from home. We started a virtual call center in Detroit, now we have one in Baltimore. But it's very efficient. It's trackable in a very specific way about how efficient it is, OK?

And also — it's a free world. So I'm not against — if you want to have a company working from home, that's fine.

How he thinks work-from-home hurts young people:

But here are the problems, OK? And they are substantial...the young generation is being damaged by this. They may or may not be in your particular staff, but they are being left behind. They're being left behind socially, ideas, meeting people. In fact, my guess is most of you live in communities a hell of a lot less diverse than this room. And so it had all these kinds of effects. We actually see these other kids slowly being left behind, and I won't do that to younger kids.

The problem with Zoom meetings:

We also had — and you know I'm right about this one — ...a lot of you were on the f------ Zoom...and you were doing the following: looking at your mail, sending texts to each other about what an ass the other person is, not paying attention, not reading your stuff, and if you don't think that slows down efficiency, creativity, creates rudeness — it does.

When I found out that people were doing that — you don't do that in my goddamn meetings. If you're going to meet with me, you've got my attention, you've got my focus, I don't bring my goddamn phone, I'm not sending texts to people. It simply doesn't work. It doesn't work for creativity, it slows down decision-making.

On JPMorgan's hiring in recent years...

...Headcount has gone up by 50,000 people in four, five years. And people tell me, 'Well, you know...'

We don't need all those people. We were putting people in jobs because the people weren't doing the job they were hired to do in the first place. It simply doesn't work. I will not be responsible for a company like that, OK, and I'm sorry. Now — you have a choice. You don't have to work at JPMorgan. So the people of you who don't want to work at the company, that's fine with me...

... and why it's time for a hiring freeze.

Can I just go to this hiring freeze — do you all know about it? I should have sent a note out...Just to explain. It's not out of anger, it's not because we've done anything wrong. It's not because we're going back to the office, though it's a little bit because of that. I suspect that going back to the office will improve efficiency a lot...But it is because we've hired 50,000 people — net — in the last four years. 50,000...I also know that we've built up too much inefficiencies and bureaucracy.

It's just my general fear that — let's just hold off for a while. Let's learn to live with what we got...Now, the other thing we've asked people to do, and I don't know if they've asked you yet, that every area should be looking to be 10% more efficient. Both for yourself and what you impose on other people...

If I was running a department with 100 people, I can guarantee you, if I wanted to, I could run it with 90, and be more efficient. I guarantee you. I could do it in my sleep. And the notion — these bureaucracies — I need more people, I can't get it done. No, because...you're filling out requests that don't need to be done...We're nice, we collaborate really well, we're really nice to each other — we over-collaborate...

Someone told me that to approve something in wealth management, they had to go to 14 committees. I am dying to get the name of the 14 committees, and I feel like firing 14 chairmen of committees.

I can't stand it anymore. I want it out of the company, and you guys got to do it, and you've all — it just kind of creeped in. I'm sorry. And I know, it's my fault, I'm the boss. And the fact that we make a lot of money has got nothing to do with it...

Bureaucracy and its discontents:

The other thing which I've noticed more and more is the creeping — and you guys know I hate bureaucracy, remember bureaucracy busters? — it just doesn't stop. It's us. I blame myself, too. How many of you take training classes that you think are a waste of time? Compliance classes that you think are a waste of time?...Or through legal, risk, compliance-type stuff that's — multiple committees to get multiple approvals. How many of you think there's a lot of bureaucracy that you think we gotta do something about? Just raise your hand in general. That's part of the problem...

Bureaucracy is also centralizing too much. Everything's got to be documented too much, and so it's just creeped in in a million different ways, and that's to keep us a great company. We're going to grow, we're going to expand, we're going to invest, we're going to take care of our people. We're just going to put a little bit of discipline in place to do our push-ups, sit-ups, and eat our spinach. That's it.

Write to Rebecca Ungarino at rebecca.ungarino@barrons.com

This content was created by Barron's, which is operated by Dow Jones & Co. Barron's is published independently from Dow Jones Newswires and The Wall Street Journal.

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250212017224:0/)
