---
title: "UniCredit Guides For Flat Profit This Year With Higher Returns — Update"
date: "2025-02-11 16:00:00"
summary: "By Elena VardonUniCredit guided for stable profit in 2025 and promised increased shareholder returns despite an expected dip in revenue as lower interest rates eat into its top line.The Italian bank on Tuesday said it expects this year's net profit to be broadly in line with 2024's result of 9.31..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Elena Vardon

UniCredit guided for stable profit in 2025 and promised increased shareholder returns despite an expected dip in revenue as lower interest rates eat into its top line.

The Italian bank on Tuesday said it expects this year's net profit to be broadly in line with 2024's result of 9.31 billion euros ($9.60 billion). UniCredit's net profit metric is adjusted for previous year's tax losses from deferred tax assets--balance-sheet items reducing future tax obligations.

The lender expects revenue net of loan loss provisions to come in above 23 billion euros for 2025, slipping from the 24.20 billion euro net result it reported for 2024. Total revenue for the year was 24.84 billion euros.

It attributed the expected decline to a moderate fall in net interest income--the difference between what lenders earn from loans and pay for deposits--as well as the further compression of its business in Russia, but guided for its fees to grow in the mid-single digits.

For the fourth quarter, UniCredit made 1.56 billion euros in its adjusted net profit metric, which represented a 18% on-year fall but beat expectations of a 1.44 billion euro result taken from a company-compiled consensus. On a reported basis, net profit dropped 30% to 1.97 billion euros due to integration costs.

It also made 6.00 billion euros--against 5.96 billion euros a year prior--in total revenue which topped consensus' 5.89 billion euro estimate.

The bank said that shareholder returns on last year's earnings will amount to 9 billion euros in total. It also promised greater distributions in 2025 and raised its cash dividend payout to 50% of net profit from 40% as previously flagged.

UniCredit has been in the spotlight due to its appetite for dealmaking and has recently launched unsolicited approaches at home with its bid for Banco BPM and abroad through its stakebuilding in Germany's Commerzbank. Last week, it also disclosed a stake in insurer Generali as it seeks to solidify its strategic position amid the complicated cross-holding of Italy's financial sector.

"Any inorganic growth must improve our standalone case and meet our strict financial and strategic requirements," Chief Executive Andrea Orcel said.

Looking ahead to 2027, the group hopes to make around 10 billion euros in net profit with a return on tangible equity above 17%. Annual shareholder rewards should top 2024's payouts, it added.

Management's outlook reads well, Keefe, Bruyette & Woods wrote in a research note, adding that the targets are ahead of current consensus expectations. JP Morgan analysts said they expect more resilience in revenues and that the profit guidance looks conservative.

Write to Elena Vardon at elena.vardon@wsj.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250211001419:0-unicredit-guides-for-flat-profit-this-year-with-higher-returns-update/)
