---
title: "New Tariffs Are Likely on the Way. When the Market Will Start to Care. — Barrons.com"
date: "2025-02-11 03:46:00"
summary: "By Reshma KapadiaAnother week brings another batch of tariff developments, with analysts expecting the Trump administration to unveil levies on imports of aluminum and steel as early as Monday, with so-called reciprocal tariffs on a host of countries by midweek.For investors, the question is how much the moves will really..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Reshma Kapadia

Another week brings another batch of tariff developments, with analysts expecting the Trump administration to unveil levies on imports of aluminum and steel as early as Monday, with so-called reciprocal tariffs on a host of countries by midweek.

For investors, the question is how much the moves will really matter, especially as the tariff threat continues to reappear.

President Donald Trump said over the weekend he plans to levy 25% tariffs on steel and aluminum imports. Yet to be seen is whether some places previously excluded, such as Japan and the European Union, may now be hit. Also unclear is whether Canada and Mexico — the U.S. imports about 60% of its aluminum from the two countries — could be affected despite last week's news that 25% tariffs against them will be delayed for a month.

Also unclear is whether the taxes will be in addition to those already in place, as was the case with the 10% tariffs Trump imposed on all Chinese goods last week. It "would be a real stunner," likely rattling markets, especially shares of industrial companies, if they were an extra levy on countries already paying 25% tariffs, Beacon Policy Advisors Owen Tedford said.

Trump has said that on Tuesday or Wednesday, he plans to announce reciprocal tariffs on countries that impose levies on U.S. goods. A long list of countries could be in the crosshairs, including India and Vietnam, which were both mentioned by Jamieson Greer, nominee for U.S. trade representative, in his confirmation hearing last week.

The maximum levy would be 15%, implemented for only 150 days, if the tariffs are imposed using the administration's balance of payments authority, Henrietta Treyz, director of economic research at Veda Partners, said via email.

All those potential moves could add up to a significant remaking of the trade landscape, but some analysts see each new round of tariff pronouncements meeting a more skeptical market. That is especially true after Trump unveiled, and then paused, 25% tariffs against Mexican and Canadian goods, triggering a panic and then a rebound in markets.

Tariffs may truly matter to investors when they affect U.S. business and consumer confidence, or spark problems in terms of financial stability, possibly through a sharp currency move, said Nicholas Colas, co-founder of DataTrek Research.

While number of mentions of tariffs on earnings calls has soared, Colas noted that they are just one factor at a time the picture is still favorable for the economy and earnings. High-yield credit spreads — the gap between yields on junk-rated debt and on Treasury debt — are still narrow, another indication that the market isn't that worried, he said.

That said, Colas cautioned that small things can turn into bigger problems, as was the case during the late 1990s Asian financial crisis. "When you start shifting the balance of payments and balance of trade, weird things could happen," he said.

One point to watch is whether the stock market's so-called fear gauge, the VIX, rises from its current level around 16 to more than 20, and remains there for a couple of weeks. Another sign of trouble would be if the currency of one of the countries embroiled in the tariff battle, such as Canada, Japan, Mexico, or even another emerging market, starts making sharp moves that begin to raise concern that trouble might spread.

In a note to clients, Anthony Saglimbene, chief market strategist at Ameriprise, wrote that he is cautious the market could be in for steeper declines if all of what Trump has proposed is actually enacted in full and over a prolonged period. He recommends clients stand still, rather than making big moves, giving the current level of uncertainty.

Investors may be taking that advice to heart as they try to find a way to live with the drumbeat of tariff threats and subsequent dealmaking.

Write to Reshma Kapadia at reshma.kapadia@barrons.com

This content was created by Barron's, which is operated by Dow Jones & Co. Barron's is published independently from Dow Jones Newswires and The Wall Street Journal.

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250210008835:0/)
