---
title: "Why Trump's latest steel and aluminum tariffs may not mean much for consumers"
date: "2025-02-12 04:55:00"
summary: "By Venessa WongAmericans may wonder if the tariffs will mean price increases for their canned beverages and metal appliances. Here's what we know.President Donald Trump's sweeping 25% tariffs on steel and aluminum from all countries, announced Monday night, may not end up meaning much for consumers and the prices they..."
categories:
  - "MarketWatch"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "MarketWatch"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Venessa Wong

Americans may wonder if the tariffs will mean price increases for their canned beverages and metal appliances. Here's what we know.

President Donald Trump's sweeping 25% tariffs on steel and aluminum from all countries, announced Monday night, may not end up meaning much for consumers and the prices they pay, depending on how they are applied.

While the president said no country is exempt from these tariffs, which are set to take effect March 4, "I still expect the impact on consumer prices to be muted," Adam Hersh, senior economist at the Economic Policy Institute, told MarketWatch. "The president says a lot of things. It's not always clear what he actually means, or what will actually happen when the rubber meets the road."

There has been a notable amount of whiplash surrounding Trump's various tariff announcements during his first few weeks in office, leading to what some describe as "tariff fatigue." The tariffs he had abruptly announced on goods from Mexico and Canada were postponed for 30 days last week after negotiations with these trading partners; a week earlier, tariffs on Colombian imports were also postponed.

Despite Trump threatening new steel and aluminum tariffs over the weekend, major stock indexes rose on Monday, as "investors already appear to have become inured to those pronouncements" just weeks into the administration's new term, MarketWatch reported.

While economists widely agree that companies ultimately pass on the cost of tariffs to consumers, creating an inflationary impact, the details of how Trump would implement these tariffs remains unclear. Researchers at the Peterson Institute for International Economics estimated earlier this month that tariffs on Canada, Mexico and China could cost the typical U.S. household over $1,200 a year. Still, a look at the effect of the steel and aluminum tariffs passed in 2018 during Trump's first term shows that the impact on consumers was actually minimal.

Read more: Why Trump's aluminum tariffs won't 'radically change' Coke's packaging plans

"Consumers really didn't or barely felt the impacts of these tariffs for several reasons," EPI's Hersh said. First, Trump eventually lifted the metal tariffs on Canada and Mexico in 2019, and 108,000 products were exempted from tariffs as of mid-2020 because companies were allowed to petition for exclusions, according to EPI.

"A lot of importers didn't end up paying the tax," Hersh said. "Even though Trump is saying no exclusions now, in 2018 the measures also initially had no exclusions and the exclusion petition process was added not too far down the road."

Second, while aluminum is used in a wide array of consumer products, "the cost is a pretty small share of the overall final cost of goods," he said. For instance, while the 2018 tariffs set off concerns about cans of Coke and Campbell's (CPB) soup and six-packs of canned beer going up in price, Hersh noted in a report about the effect of those tariffs that because "the aluminum used in beverage cans represents only 5.7% of the manufacturers' cost of beer in cans" the price of aluminum had "no discernible causal effect" on the price of canned beverages.

On Tuesday, Coca-Cola (KO) executives brushed off concerns about Trump's latest aluminum tariffs, saying the potential impact is "not insignificant," but that packaging is only a small part of total costs and it's a manageable problem.

Foreign countries also have ways to mitigate the impact of tariffs so that their products remain competitively priced, Hersh said. They could, for instance, devalue their currency to offset most of the cost increase.

The White House noted in a fact sheet that the aim of the tariffs is "revitalizing" the domestic steel and aluminum industries. Companies have invested billions into the U.S. aluminum industry since 2016, but remain "heavily reliant on imports of upstream aluminum, both smelted and scrap, especially from Canada," Katie Rosebrook, a spokesperson for the Aluminum Association, told MarketWatch. "It would take billions of investment over years, if not decades, to make the United States fully self-sufficient for its metal needs." As for steel, 22.5% of domestic steel demand is currently satisfied by domestic production, according to the American Iron and Steel Institute.The White House did not immediately respond to a request for comment about the impact of these new tariffs on consumer prices, but said in a release that tariffs during Trump's first term did not cause inflation "and only had a temporary effect on overall price levels," citing EPI research.

Trump's aggressive use of tariff threats in his second term has raised concerns among inflation-wary consumers - many who voted for him in November in the face of rising costs that they blamed on former President Joe Biden's economic policies. Diego Marroquín Bitar, a scholar at the left-center research group Woodrow Wilson Center, told MarketWatch if costs for importers rise, "inevitably you have to raise their prices to consumers."

The threat of new tariffs are "basically an invitation for other countries to sit down at the negotiating table and offer something to [Trump] that he can claim, as Mexico and Canada have already done," he said. "It's a negotiating tool he's much more willing to use compared to his first presidential term."

What personal-finance issues would you like to see covered in MarketWatch? We would like to hear from readers about their financial decisions and money-related questions. You can fill out this form or write to us at readerstories@marketwatch.com. A reporter may be in touch to learn more. MarketWatch will not attribute your answers to you by name without your permission.

-Venessa Wong

This content was created by MarketWatch, which is operated by Dow Jones & Co. MarketWatch is published independently from Dow Jones Newswires and The Wall Street Journal.

[MarketWatch](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_SN20250211012111:0/)
