---
title: "SharkNinja Sourcing From China Nears End as New Tariff War Ensues"
date: "2025-02-14 02:24:00"
summary: "By Denny JacobSharkNinja is hoping to keep prices on its household gadgets stable even as greater tariff pressure mount, all while staying on track to move production out of China.\"We have been trying very hard to not pass along an increase to consumers,\" said Chief Executive Mark Barrocas. \"We are..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Denny Jacob

SharkNinja is hoping to keep prices on its household gadgets stable even as greater tariff pressure mount, all while staying on track to move production out of China.

"We have been trying very hard to not pass along an increase to consumers," said Chief Executive Mark Barrocas. "We are doing everything we can do to control the controllables, including leveraging our scale on the supply side."

The company known for its blenders, vacuums and other home gadgets navigated tariffs during President Trump's first term. In the years since, SharkNinja has diversified its supply chain with an emphasis on limiting exposure to China.

Barrocas said the company should have virtually no exposure to China by the end of the fiscal year and that it expects to be about 90% of the way there by the end of the second quarter. He added that the company has no exposure to Mexico and Canada.

Tariffs have been a focal point for companies since Trump returned to office. He has announced levies on steel and aluminum without exceptions for allies, as well as tariffs on China in addition to previous ones that were imposed. Tariffs on Canada and Mexico are currently paused after deals were reached.

Another domestic policy issue that may disrupt operations is that of whether TikTok is ultimately banned in the U.S. Product reviews from customers and content creators have gone viral on the platform, which has in part helped the company report consistently strong quarterly sales despite broader concerns about inflation and the economy.

Barrocas believes in content creators more than he does any one platform. The chief executive said he sees a lot of potential with platforms like Reddit and Pinterest to keep discussions about Shark and Ninja products at the forefront as consumers look for reviews to help determine their next purchase.

The Needham, Mass., company still expects to grow despite the more challenging environment.

For fiscal 2025, SharkNinja expects sales to increase 10% to 12% from a year earlier. Adjusted earnings per share, meanwhile, are expected to be in the range of $4.80 and $4.90. The company noted its guidance includes the effect of a 10% additional tariff on imports from China announced earlier this month.

The company's guidance comes on top of another strong quarter in which sales surged 30% to $1.79 billion, boosting profit to $128.7 million from $49.3 million a year earlier. The top-line result easily cleared Wall Street's estimates of $1.63 billion.

Write to Denny Jacob at denny.jacob@wsj.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250213013075:0/)
