---
title: "AppLovin Could Be The Next TikTok, Analysts Say"
date: "2025-02-14 01:28:00"
summary: "By Katherine HamiltonInvestors are flocking to AppLovin, the latest technology darling. The company, which connects advertisers with mobile-game developers, could be the next TikTok, according to analysts.Shares for AppLovin have increased sevenfold in the past year and on Thursday rose another 28%, to $490.09, after reporting its latest quarterly results...."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Katherine Hamilton

Investors are flocking to AppLovin, the latest technology darling. The company, which connects advertisers with mobile-game developers, could be the next TikTok, according to analysts.

Shares for AppLovin have increased sevenfold in the past year and on Thursday rose another 28%, to $490.09, after reporting its latest quarterly results. Investors expect these returns to grow in the long-term as the company simplifies its operations and expands into advertising products other than mobile games, including e-commerce.

The Palo Alto, Calif., company, which went public in 2021, is finding success with its artificial-intelligence model that has cracked the code for advertising to mobile-game users. More than 1 billion people play mobile games each day, a consumer audience that rivals TikTok and Meta Platforms, said Bank of America analyst Omar Dessouky.

"None of those companies have ever tried to monetize this audience," Dessouky said. "Every four years or so a new customer acquisition model disrupts the advertising landscape. TikTok was the last one."

Ads on mobile games were, for a long time, primarily marketing other mobile games. That is because it has been difficult to figure out what products those users would be interested in, besides what they were already engaging with: mobile games. As a result, game developers were often advertising their competitors' products on their own platform, said Benchmark analyst Mike Hickey.

AppLovin has built an AI model that allows mobile game advertisements to expand to other industries. The model can collect data on game users, including which advertisements they are most engaged with, and then use that data to tailor other ads to them.

"You now have the opportunity to grow your revenue without the reality of cannibalizing your own product," Hickey said.

AppLovin's success is now allowing it to start working with e-commerce advertisers. While it hasn't disclosed what companies it's working with, Dessouky said players like Amazon.com and Walmart could be interested. AppLovin in the fourth quarter saw its revenue surge 44%, to $1.37 billion, and nearly quadrupled its earnings per share year over year. Advertising revenue increased 73%.

"The breakthrough is only beginning," Chief Executive Adam Foroughi said on a call with investors. "This opens up a massive opportunity as there are over 10 million businesses worldwide who advertise online."

E-commerce advertising is expected to be 10% or more of AppLovin's business in 2025, Hickey said. It is also starting to work with companies that aren't direct-to-consumer.

Because it is one of the first to find success in this industry, AppLovin has an upper hand on competitors like Alphabet Inc.'s Google or gaming-software company Unity Software, analysts said. The longer it collects data on mobile-game users, the better its AI model can personalize ads to those consumers, Dessouky said. That will help it continue to dominate market share.

AppLovin said Wednesday it is selling its game-development business for $900 million to an undisclosed private buyer. The divestment demonstrates the company is doubling down on its advertising business and shedding excess segments that might not aid that vision, Hickey said.

"It's not a cancer but let's just say it's a benign tumor," he said of the game-development business.

Write to Katherine at katherine.hamilton@wsj.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250213012731:0/)
