---
title: "Ford CEO Sounds Off on Tariffs — WSJ"
date: "2025-02-12 00:45:00"
summary: "By Mike ColiasFord Chief Executive Jim Farley said the threat of tariffs and other policy changes emanating from Washington, D.C., have resulted in chaos for the auto industry.While the Trump administration's bid to spark more domestic manufacturing holds promise, \"so far, what we're seeing is a lot of cost and..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Mike Colias

Ford Chief Executive Jim Farley said the threat of tariffs and other policy changes emanating from Washington, D.C., have resulted in chaos for the auto industry.

While the Trump administration's bid to spark more domestic manufacturing holds promise, "so far, what we're seeing is a lot of cost and a lot of chaos," Farley said during a Wolfe Research investor conference Tuesday.

The proposed 25% tariffs on Mexico and Canada would be devastating, and fresh levies on steel and aluminum would inflate costs, Farley said.

The CEO also cited the risk of losing federal subsidies for electric vehicles, including funding available for companies that make batteries in the U.S. Jobs tied to battery factories Ford is building in Tennessee, Kentucky and Michigan could be at risk if the Trump administration yanks those subsidies, Farley warned.

Farley said he will be in Washington, D.C. on Wednesday for the second time since the inauguration to press Ford's case with the new administration.

"They need to understand there's a lot of policy uncertainty," Farley said. "In the meantime we're scrambling to manage the company as professionals. We're in a global race."

This item is part of a Wall Street Journal live coverage event. The full stream can be found by searching P/WSJL (WSJ Live Coverage).

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250211007531:0/)
