---
title: "News Highlights: Top Global Markets News of the Day - Tuesday at 3 AM ET"
date: "2025-02-11 16:15:00"
summary: "Nasdaq Leads U.S. Stocks HigherU.S. stocks rose Monday as investors shrugged off the risk that President Trump's planned steel and aluminum tariffs could ignite a trade war.China's Xi Is Building an Economic Fortress Against U.S. PressureAs Trump turns up the heat on Beijing, China is trying to become more technologically..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

**Nasdaq Leads U.S. Stocks Higher**

U.S. stocks rose Monday as investors shrugged off the risk that President Trump's planned steel and aluminum tariffs could ignite a trade war.

**China's Xi Is Building an Economic Fortress Against U.S. Pressure**

As Trump turns up the heat on Beijing, China is trying to become more technologically self-sufficient, but its efforts have a significant cost.

**French Jobs Market Remains Strong in Face of Economy Headwinds**

Unemployment unexpectedly edged down in the final months of last year, bucking expectations and keeping the rate close to its lowest level in more than 40 years.

**South Korean State Think Tank Cuts 2025 Growth Forecast, Flags U.S. Tariff Risk**

The Korea Development Institute now forecasts South Korea's gross domestic product growth at 1.6% in 2025, largely due to deteriorating global trade conditions since Trump took office in the U.S.

**RBA's Looming Policy Meeting Set to Be a Tense Tightrope Walk**

If money market pricing is to be believed, an interest-rate cut by the Reserve Bank of Australia next week is nearly a done deal.

**Trump Imposes Global 25% Steel, Aluminum Tariffs**

The levies, which take effect March 4, are just the latest in a litany of tariff threats and impositions from the president in the first weeks of his second term.

**Trump Fires Another Tariff Salvo. When the Market Will Start to Care.**

President Donald Trump said over the weekend he plans to levy 25% tariffs on steel and aluminum imports.

**Trump's Conflicting Business Policies Sow Economic Uncertainty**

Companies are excited about the administration's focus on fossil fuels, lower taxes and deregulation. But confusion over tariffs, deportations, and federal cuts is getting in the way.

**Republicans Bank on Growth Boom to Claim Budget Math Adds Up**

The approach is crucial to convincing GOP colleagues-and voters-that Trump's plans won't make U.S. finances worse.

**Trump Tells U.S. Treasury to Stop Minting Pennies**

President Trump called the minting of the coin a waste of money, reviving a longstanding debate about getting rid of the penny.

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250211001558:0-news-highlights-top-global-markets-news-of-the-day-tuesday-at-3-am-et/)
