---
title: "Trump Administration Suspends Federal Fund for EV-Charging Infrastructure — OPIS"
date: "2025-02-08 02:43:00"
summary: "The Department of Transportation has suspended a $5 billion federal program designed to help fund electric vehicle charging infrastructure across the U.S., according to a letter Thursday to state transportation officials.The DOT's letter said the Federal Highway Administration will update the program and publish it for public comment in the..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The Department of Transportation has suspended a $5 billion federal program designed to help fund electric vehicle charging infrastructure across the U.S., according to a letter Thursday to state transportation officials.

The DOT's letter said the Federal Highway Administration will update the program and publish it for public comment in the spring.

The National Electric Vehicle Infrastructure Formula Program provides funds to the states for grants of up to 80% of the cost of EV charging infrastructure projects. An OPIS analysis has shown that more than half of the projects involved chargers at retail fuel stations.

"The new leadership of the Department of Transportation has decided to review the policies underlying the implementation of the NEVI Formula Program," wrote Emily Biondi, associate administrator of the Office of Planning, Environment and Realty. "The Federal Highway Administration is updating the NEVI Formula Program Guidance to align with current U.S. DOT policy and priorities."

NATSO represents truck stops and travel centers, and its public affairs staff also lobbies on behalf of SIGMA, a trade group for some of the nation's largest fuel retailers. While many of NATSO's members have tapped NEVI to diversify into EV charging, the trade organization believes the program needs improvement. "The NEVI program has in many states helped catalyze existing gas stations and truck stops to install fast, state-of-the-art EV charging stations. In other states, NEVI has been implemented poorly, with chargers either still not built or, if they are, they're in places nobody wants to stop," wrote David Fialkov, executive vice president of government affairs for NATSO.

"We are encouraged that the Trump administration is reevaluating rather than abandoning the NEVI program and intend to work closely with them to share our experience and keep what's been working, while reconsidering clearly unproductive approaches," Fialkov said.

This content was created by Oil Price Information Service, which is operated by Dow Jones & Co. OPIS is run independently from Dow Jones Newswires and The Wall Street Journal.

* Reporting by Donna Harris, dharris@opisnet.com; Editing by Michael Kelly, mkelly@opisnet.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250207009074:0-trump-administration-suspends-federal-fund-for-ev-charging-infrastructure-opis/)
