---
title: "Auto & Transport Roundup: Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-14 01:20:00"
summary: "The latest Market Talks covering the Auto and Transport sector. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires at 4:20 ET, 12:20 ET and 16:50 ET.1207 GMT - The NATO alliance must increase defense spending, not only because the U.S. is demanding it, but because \"the threat coming from Russia and other..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The latest Market Talks covering the Auto and Transport sector. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires at 4:20 ET, 12:20 ET and 16:50 ET.

1207 GMT - The NATO alliance must increase defense spending, not only because the U.S. is demanding it, but because "the threat coming from Russia and other adversaries is increasing," NATO's Secretary General Mark Rutte tells reports in Brussels. There is a "clear convergence" emerging among NATO members on the need to end the Ukraine-Russia war as soon as possible, and strengthen Ukraine ahead of potential ceasefire talks, he says. It is crucial that Ukraine is involved in any such talks, Rutte adds. Most European defense stocks are rising in midday trade, after some decreases in the early morning following a call between U.S. President Donald Trump and Russian President Vladimir Putin. BAE Systems' shares advance 2.9%, Rheinmetall shares are up 1.95%, shares in Leonardo rise 1.5% and Hensoldt shares are up 0.8%. (cristina.gallardo@wsj.com)

0904 GMT - Michelin's guidance for 2025 offers some relief given that the company points to rising earnings, Deutsche Bank's Christoph Laskawi says in a note. The French tire maker reported revenue and earnings that were in line with expectations, while its cash generation beat forecasts, the analyst says. More importantly, the company guided for growing earnings in 2025, which is in line with expectations but should provide relief to those who feared worse, Laskawi says. Michelin didn't hint at an extension to its 1 billion-euro buyback program, but this could come in the second half of the year, the analyst says. Shares jump 5.2%. (adria.calatayud@wsj.com)

0849 GMT - European stocks open higher amid expectations of a truce in Ukraine after President Trump said he is ready to negotiate with Russia. Although it is unclear whether a truce in the conflict would lead to a removal of sanctions on Russia and improved energy supply for Europe, investors could see it as a logical next step, Barclays analysts say in a research note. This could lift sentiment on the energy intensive sectors and manufacturing plays, the bank says. DAX, Germany's index of blue chips, jumps 1% in early trade with Siemens, BASF and auto makers Mercedes-Benz, Volkswagen and BMW among the biggest gainers. The Euro Stoxx 50 is up 0.90%, while France's CAC 40 climbs 0.87% and Switzerland's leading index rises 0.79%. (maitane.sardon@wsj.com)

0824 GMT - European defense stocks faced pressure in early-morning trade Thursday, following the call between U.S. President Trump and Russian President Vladimir Putin over a potential cease-fire in the Ukraine-Russia war. Germany's Rheinmetall, one of the biggest beneficiaries from the conflict, is down 2.1% at 713.20 euros, while the German sensor solutions provider Hensoldt falls 7.1% at 33.38 euros, and Renk Group losses 2.2% at 23.92 euros. In the U.K., BAE Systems is down 0.3% at 12.05 pounds, and Italy's Leonardo falls 2.2% at 29.26 euros. European foreign ministers issued a joint statement Wednesday saying that they want to put Ukraine in a position of strength, but without a budgetary announcement this is unlikely to prevent significant pressure on European defense stocks, Jefferies analysts Chloe Lemarie and Ben Brown say. (cristina.gallardo@wsj.com)

0808 GMT - BYD will see stronger store traffic in the near future, primarily due to its 21 new models equipped with its driving-assistance technology system, called "Eyes of God," OCBC analysts write in a note. The Chinese automaker also revealed plans to integrate DeepSeek into their models, they add. The new models will boost store traffic when they arrive over the next few months, the analysts say. The significant volume of 21 model upgrades with ADAS could make it difficult for peers to respond quickly and effectively in the next three to six months, they add. OCBC maintains a buy rating on the stock at a fair value of CNY425.00. Shares were last at CNY341.30. (jiahui.huang@wsj.com; @ivy\_jiahuihuang)

0550 GMT - Ashok Leyland is likely continuing to execute strongly on margins, Nomura analysts say, noting the automaker's higher-than-expected Ebitda margin in 3Q FY 2025. The analysts note that management has commented that the margins' medium-term target is the mid-teens. Nomura expects Ashok Leyland's margins to keep rising through the upcycle as the industry follows pricing discipline. The demand outlook for the Indian company is also positive in 4Q FY 2025 and FY 2026, supported by an aging fleet and improved capital expenditures, according to management commentary. Nomura raises the stock's target price to INR250.00 from INR247.00 with an unchanged buy rating. Shares are 0.5% higher at INR220.65. (ronnie.harui@wsj.com)

0310 GMT - Geely's new Galaxy L6 sedan could become a solid driver for the company's Galaxy brand to reach its 1.0 million unit sales target this year, Deutsche Bank analyst Bin Wang writes in a note. The company may launch five to six products under the Galaxy brand this year, he notes. Geely plans to host an "AI intelligent technology" event in March, to showcase its strategy on autonomous driving, and other tech features. DeepSeek's R1 model has significantly improved the AI assistant end-user experience. This could boost accuracy for automotive mobility cases and support Geely's vehicle sales, he adds. DB maintains a buy rating and HK$19.00 target price for the stock, which is last at HK$17.08.(jiahui.huang@wsj.com; @ivy\_jiahuihuang)

1841 GMT - Colonel's Island Terminal in Brunswick, Georgia, was the busiest U.S. port for cars and heavy equipment last year, Georgia Ports Authority says. The facility handled over 901,000 units of autos and heavy equipment in 2024, in the wake of a series of improvements which included new warehousing and processing space. Brunswick was also the top port for roll-on/roll-off exports in 2024, moving 600,000 tons, the Authority says. Overall, the facility handled over 2 million tons of roll-on-roll-off cargo last year, according to the Authority. (stephen.nakrosis@wsj.com)

1719 GMT - UBS says Lyft's worse-than-expected 4Q gross bookings and margin trajectory reinforces its below-consensus adjusted Ebitda forecasts for 2025 to 2027. The analysts also say in a research note that the upcoming loss of the Delta Air Lines partnership, that linked Delta SkyMiles and Lyft accounts, will likely be a headwind that makes their medium-term forecasts uncertain. Add to that the threat of robotaxis and the analysts say they have limited visibility into near-term trading multiple expansion. "We think Lyft's competing initiative will remain nascent through 2026," the analysts say. UBS cuts its target price to $15 from $16. Lyft falls 4% to $13.82. (sabela.ojea@wsj.com; @sabelaojeaguix)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250213012681:0/)
