---
title: "News Highlights: Top Company News of the Day - Thursday at 5 AM ET"
date: "2025-02-13 18:15:00"
summary: "Honda, Nissan End Merger Talks, Leaving Nissan to Seek Other PartnersThe two companies said that Honda sought to make Nissan a subsidiary. That shift angered Nissan's board, a person familiar with the situation said.Nestle Sales Growth Hits Historical Low as Shoppers RetreatNestle reported its weakest annual organic sales growth in..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

**Honda, Nissan End Merger Talks, Leaving Nissan to Seek Other Partners**

The two companies said that Honda sought to make Nissan a subsidiary. That shift angered Nissan's board, a person familiar with the situation said.

**Nestle Sales Growth Hits Historical Low as Shoppers Retreat**

Nestle reported its weakest annual organic sales growth in more than two decades, hit by a pullback in consumer spending after years of high inflation.

**Siemens Net Profit Beats Market Views on Continued Data Center Demand**

The industrial conglomerate has been among the early winners in a data-center boom driven by AI.

**Sony Group Raises Earnings Guidance**

The Japanese entertainment and electronics company raised its annual earnings projections after its third-quarter net profit rose on strength in its game and music businesses.

**Baidu Plans to Make Its AI Chatbot Free**

The Beijing-based company stated that it would offer its Ernie AI chatbot at no cost to both desktop and mobile users.

**Jamie Dimon Sounds Off on Remote Work, Bureaucracy, 'Pablum and Bulls-'**

JPMorgan Chase CEO doesn't hold back answering questions during an internal meeting with staffers of the financial giant.

**Commerzbank to Cut Thousands of Jobs as It Targets Higher Returns**

The German lender plans to lay off around 9% of its workforce in a bid to boost returns and convince investors of its standalone prospects as it fends off an approach from Italy's UniCredit.

**FCC set to investigate media giant Comcast over diversity commitments and says it could shut down DEI programs elsewhere**

Comcast says it 'will be cooperating with the FCC to answer their questions'

**Tesla Stock Snapped Its Losing Streak. Now the Bulls Make a Case for Musk and AI Gains.**

Two analysts published positive notes as the shares finally arrested a painful slide.

**Treasury Wine Fails to Find Buyers for Its Budget Brands**

Treasury Wine Estates admitted defeat in its effort to divest brands including Wolf Blass and Blossom Hill, moderating its annual earnings guidance amid weaker sales of its cheaper products.

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250213005015:0-news-highlights-top-company-news-of-the-day-thursday-at-5-am-et/)
