---
title: "Checkit Returns With New $8 Million All-Share Takeover of Crimson Tide"
date: "2025-02-11 15:43:00"
summary: "By Ian WalkerCheckit agreed to buy Crimson Tide in an all-share deal that values the mobile-business company at 6.5 million pounds ($8 million), seven months after it pulled from a previous plan to buy the company at a higher value.The London-listed provider of digital tools for the workplace said Tuesday..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Ian Walker

Checkit agreed to buy Crimson Tide in an all-share deal that values the mobile-business company at 6.5 million pounds ($8 million), seven months after it pulled from a previous plan to buy the company at a higher value.

The London-listed provider of digital tools for the workplace said Tuesday that it was offering six of its shares for each Crimson Tide share held. The offer values each Crimson Tide share at 99 pence based on Checkit's closing price of 16.5 pence on Monday.

On June 4, Checkit tabled an offer to buy Crimson Tide that valued its shares at 182 pence at the time. At that time, it was offering seven shares for each Crimson Tide share.

The company subsequently said on June 26 that it wouldn't be making a formal offer to buy Crimson Tide after the target company said it was considering another proposal. Under U.K. Takeover Panel rules, it couldn't make another offer for six months.

On June 21, Crimson Tide said that it had received a 20.5 million pound takeover proposal from Ideagen that it was considering, but that deal fell apart on July 11 when Ideagen said it wouldn't be proceeding with a formal offer.

Upon completion of the Checkit takeover, Crimson Tide shareholders will own 26.8% of Checkit.

"The boards of Checkit and Crimson Tide believe that the combination of their companies presents a compelling strategic opportunity to create a market leader in workflow-software solutions, also providing a boost to Checkit's own strategic objectives and a range of benefits to all shareholders of the combined group," the companies said in a joint statement.

Write to Ian Walker at ian.walker@wsj.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250211001300:0/)
