---
title: "Inflation Worries Flare. Is a Rate Hike Back on the Table? — Barrons.com"
date: "2025-02-08 16:30:00"
summary: "By Megan LeonhardtPresident Donald Trump's plans to implement higher tariffs have reignited Americans' fears about higher prices. That could hamper the Federal Reserve's goal of bringing inflation down to 2%.Fed officials have said consumers' well-anchored inflation expectations are one reason they are forecasting a soft-landing scenario, where inflation subsides without..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Megan Leonhardt

President Donald Trump's plans to implement higher tariffs have reignited Americans' fears about higher prices. That could hamper the Federal Reserve's goal of bringing inflation down to 2%.

Fed officials have said consumers' well-anchored inflation expectations are one reason they are forecasting a soft-landing scenario, where inflation subsides without a recession. If that confidence should falter, it could ratchet up inflationary pressures as perception becomes reality.

The Trump administration recently levied an additional 10% tariff on all imports from China and plans to implement 25% duties on products from Mexico and Canada next month if the countries can't come to an agreement. The president has also threatened tariffs on the European Union and said on Friday that he'll announce reciprocal tariffs on other countries next week. Companies that import goods from targeted countries pay tariffs and often pass those additional costs to consumers.

In the wake of tougher tariff talks, the latest data released Friday shows that consumer sentiment has waned substantially, while inflation expectations have soared. That could spell trouble for central bankers as they attempt to bring back price stability without causing harm to a slowing labor market.

The University of Michigan's Consumer Sentiment Index fell to 67.8 this month from the 71.1 measure in January — a roughly 5% drop. It was the second consecutive month that consumer optimism has waned and February's reading was also the lowest since July 2024.

The decrease was "pervasive" across all consumers, with Americans across age, wealth, and political leanings all posting sentiment declines, said Joanne Hsu, surveys of consumers director. The index is 4.8 points higher than it was before the November election, which indicates there may still be room to fall further.

Perhaps more concerning is the fact that more Americans expect inflation will be higher over the next year amid President Trump's plans for higher tariffs. The median 1-year inflation expectation jumped up from 3.3% in January to 4.3% this month.

It was the highest reading since November 2023 and the second consecutive month of "unusually large increases," Hsu said. Long-run inflation expectations were also up 3.3% — the highest level since 2008 — from the 3.2% reading last month.

"This increase, at the margin, adds another reason for the Fed to remain cautious and pause the easing cycle for a while," writes Ruben Gargallo Abargues, assistant economist at Capital Economics.

Higher expectations for inflation aren't the only inflationary headwind that the Fed is currently facing. Friday's employment data showed that wage growth continued to outpace expectations in January, which could feed into services sector inflation.

Beyond the potential inflationary effects of tariffs, food and gasoline prices have already ticked up over the past month. Avian influenza and national disasters, as well as longer-term issues like lower levels of cattle, are putting pressure on food prices. Meanwhile, gas prices are $3.14 on Friday, up 7 cents from a month ago, according to AAA. While prices are on the rise, they're still down from historic highs.

Economists expect Fed officials will keep interest rates steady at the March 18-19 policy meeting and could even extend their pause through the June meeting.

So with all signs pointing to a risk of accelerating inflation, why not increase rates? For one, the labor market, while still solid, is slowing down. Hiring growth may not hold up if the Fed hikes rates. And a rate hike might further discourage consumers, causing households to pull back on spending.

Inflation data hasn't exactly merited rate increases, either. The Personal Consumption Expenditures Price Index, the Fed's preferred inflation gauge, rose 0.3% in December and was up 2.6% from a year earlier. That followed a 0.1% month-over-month uptick in November and 0.2% in October.

Core inflation, which excludes food and energy costs and is considered a better indicator of price trends, was 0.2% month over month in December and up 2.8% year over year. It was the third consecutive month of a 2.8% year-over-year increase.

At this point, the risks of a rate hike damaging the consumer and labor market outweigh the potential impacts of sustained higher inflation this year.

Write to Megan Leonhardt at megan.leonhardt@barrons.com

This content was created by Barron's, which is operated by Dow Jones & Co. Barron's is published independently from Dow Jones Newswires and The Wall Street Journal.

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250208000565:0/)
