---
title: "Auto Executives Try to Sway Trump on Tariffs, EV Subsidies — WSJ"
date: "2025-02-14 09:54:00"
summary: "By Mike Colias and Brian SchwartzFord Motor Chief Executive Jim Farley warned lawmakers in Washington this week that tariffs would hurt U.S. car companies, the latest attempt by an auto executive to confront President Trump's policy plans.Farley said tariffs on Mexico and Canada would benefit the company's foreign rivals in..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Mike Colias and Brian Schwartz

Ford Motor Chief Executive Jim Farley warned lawmakers in Washington this week that tariffs would hurt U.S. car companies, the latest attempt by an auto executive to confront President Trump's policy plans.

Farley said tariffs on Mexico and Canada would benefit the company's foreign rivals in the auto sector, people with knowledge of the meetings said. He emphasized the importance of federal subsidies for electric vehicles and batteries, saying they are needed to prevent U.S. companies from falling further behind fast-moving Chinese carmakers. Farley called the meetings productive, according to a statement from Ford.

"There's a global street fight in the auto industry right now," Farley told investors at a Wolfe Research event earlier this week. While he sees promise in Trump's pledge to strengthen the auto industry and U.S. manufacturing broadly, "so far what we're seeing is a lot of cost and a lot of chaos."

Auto executives have been making the rounds in Washington in recent weeks to lobby for a laundry list of priorities. Like CEOs from tech and other sectors, they are meeting with administration officials and others close to the White House to personally put forward their agendas with Trump.

The administration's priorities, particularly on trade, have rattled an industry that spans borders and is heavily reliant on imports for its manufacturing operations. The proposed tariffs threaten to pinch already thin profit margins on some models, and executives fear the withdrawal of federal support for EVs could worsen losses on this technology.

On Thursday, Trump signed a memo on reciprocal trade, directing federal agencies to study how to adjust U.S. tariffs to match those of existing duties by other nations. The order stopped short of imposing tariffs immediately. Rather, it directs the Commerce Department and U.S. trade representatives to deliver a report on next steps with the studies expected to be completed by April 1.

The president also told reporters during a signing event in the Oval Office that auto tariffs would be "coming soon."

"They're all coming more or less at the same time," Trump said. "We're going to do a lot more automobile manufacturing in our country."

Auto executives from small parts makers to big manufactures say they are spending a lot of time planning different scenarios depending on how and when the tariffs are implemented. Dearborn, Mich.-based Ford has teams of people analyzing the potential fallout if they are enacted and drawing up triage plans throughout its supply chain, finance chief Sherry House said earlier this week.

A 25% tariff on steel and aluminum imports that Trump announced Sunday is likely to inflate costs throughout the industry if they take effect as scheduled in March, analysts and executives say. Farley warned that even speculation of tariffs can push prices higher within the supply chain.

Car companies and parts suppliers got a reprieve last week when Trump delayed by one month implementation of 25% tariffs on goods from Mexico and Canada. Analysts have said those levies could wipe out more than half of General Motors's bottom line, for example, and bankrupt many parts makers.

Meanwhile, Trump has threatened to withdraw tens of billions of dollars in subsidies for electric vehicles, which car executives say is crucial to get their wobbly EV operations profitable. The administration also is considering significant rollbacks to federal rules that set certain requirements for vehicle fuel economy and tailpipe pollution.

Other car executives have visited Trump in recent weeks, including GM Chief Executive Mary Barra.

GM started preparing for potential tariffs on Mexico and Canada the day Trump threatened such actions, Barra said Tuesday. The Detroit automaker can mitigate 30% to 50% of the fallout of the new import duties without spending additional capital.

John Elkann, chairman of Jeep-maker Stellantis, visited Trump twice in the days leading up to the inauguration, a spokesman for the European executive said. The men discussed factory investments the global automaker was planning to make in the U.S., including reopening a central Illinois plant to build a future midsize truck, the spokesman said.

In private meetings with officials from Hyundai Motor and other automakers, incoming Commerce Secretary Howard Lutnick has emphasized that if auto companies increase factory work and employment in the U.S., they won't get hit with tariffs, people with knowledge of the discussions say.

Those comments echo a sentiment he has expressed publicly, including during a speech at a Trump inauguration event. "If these companies don't want to pay, there is only one thing they can do: Build their factories in America, hire Americans with great high-paying jobs," Lutnick said on Jan. 20.

That messaging has frustrated some car executives who have tried to show the administration they already have extensive U.S. operations, only to find themselves under threat from the steel and aluminum tariffs and potential levies on Mexico and Canada, the people say.

Some auto lobbyists have encouraged Trump administration officials to exempt companies that already are complying with rules set forth under the U.S.-Mexico-Canada trade agreement, which was negotiated during Trump's first term as a replacement for the North American Free Trade Agreement.

So far, Trump hasn't been inclined to offer such exemptions. On Monday, he voided all those on aluminum and steel tariffs offered to countries in the past, including exemptions once held by Argentina, Brazil, Mexico and South Korea. Trump believes providing them would weaken his dealmaking leverage with other countries, according to people familiar with his thinking.

Executives from the Detroit automakers have warned that they would be hit harder than their foreign competitors by tariffs on Mexico and Canada, because so much of their manufacturing operations are concentrated in North America.

Before the Jan. 20 inauguration, GM shifted at least 30% of its vehicle inventory at its international plants to the U.S. to avoid the threat of future levies, executives have said.

"We know where some of the very easy and fast options are, and then we can look more long-term based on what the outlook is," Barra said.

Write to Mike Colias at mike.colias@wsj.com and Brian Schwartz at brian.schwartz@wsj.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250213018123:0/)
