---
title: "Intel Co-Founder Gordon Moore's Hawaii Home Lists for $28.8 Million — WSJ"
date: "2025-02-08 07:05:00"
summary: "By Sarah PaynterAfter the death of computer-industry pioneer Gordon Moore in 2023, the Intel co-founder's beachfront Hawaii vacation home is going on the market for $28.8 million.Gordon and his wife, Betty Moore, built the Big Island home soon after he retired from Intel, a Silicon Valley-based computer-technology company, in 2006...."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Sarah Paynter

After the death of computer-industry pioneer Gordon Moore in 2023, the Intel co-founder's beachfront Hawaii vacation home is going on the market for $28.8 million.

Gordon and his wife, Betty Moore, built the Big Island home soon after he retired from Intel, a Silicon Valley-based computer-technology company, in 2006. The Moores paid $13.45 million for 2 acres in a gated resort community in the South Kohala district, then built the six-bedroom home in 2008, according to listing agent Steve Hurwitz of Hawai'i Life. They furnished the roughly 10,000-square-foot home with about $3 million worth of furniture, which is included in the listing.

The Moore family couldn't be reached for comment. The proceeds of the sale will go to the nonprofit Gordon and Betty Moore Foundation, which supports conservation and science-related causes, according to Harvey Fineberg, the foundation's president.

The estate has about 285 feet of coastline, said Hurwitz. The Asian-influenced home has cedar, teak and stone finishes. Built into a wall near the kitchen is a roughly 9-by-13-foot fossil with imprints of fish and palm fronds from a prehistoric riverbed, said Hurwitz. The roughly 2,000-pound fossil is around 51.3 million years old, said the Moores' interior designer Paul Wiseman. "Gordon loved the fossil," Wiseman said. The Moores paid about $250,000 for the piece, said Hurwitz.

The estate has lanais, koi ponds and an infinity-edge pool, Hurwitz said. The 1-acre parcel with the house is also being offered for $21.9 million without the adjacent 1 acre, said Hurwitz.

The Moores lived in Woodside, Calif., outside San Francisco, but spent as much time on the Big Island as their schedules allowed. While on the Big Island, they liked to walk on the beach and whale-watch, said Fineberg, who became a friend of the family. Gordon kept a binocular telescope in his office for whale watching. The Moores, who had two children and four grandchildren, also enjoyed hosting family and friends on the property, Fineberg added.

Gordon co-founded Intel in 1968 with Robert Noyce, and the company became known for its microprocessors and semiconductor technologies for computers. Gordon, who received the Presidential Medal of Freedom, was known for " Moore's Law," an observation that the number of transistors on a chip doubles about every two years. Gordon died at age 94 in March 2023, and Betty at age 95 later that year.

There were 17 home sales over $10 million on the Big Island in 2024, with a median sale price of $14.5 million, up 1.4% year-over-year, according to a Hawai'i Life report. The most expensive sale of 2024 in the South Kohala district was a $21 million deal for a smaller house with less beachfront, said Hurwitz.

Write to Sarah Paynter at Sarah.paynter@wsj.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250207011461:0/)
