---
title: "Nasdaq Slips; Bond Yields Rise — WSJ"
date: "2025-02-12 03:06:00"
summary: "By Caitlin McCabe and Karen LangleyStocks pared their losses after Federal Reserve Chair Jerome Powell said the central bank doesn't need to rush to cut interest rates.Escalating trade tensions had pushed major indexes lower, with President Trump signing off on tariffs on steel and aluminum.The European Union responded swiftly Tuesday,..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Caitlin McCabe and Karen Langley

Stocks pared their losses after Federal Reserve Chair Jerome Powell said the central bank doesn't need to rush to cut interest rates.

Escalating trade tensions had pushed major indexes lower, with President Trump signing off on tariffs on steel and aluminum.

The European Union responded swiftly Tuesday, with European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen saying the bloc intends to retaliate against the latest tariffs.

Meantime, gold, considered a haven during market jitters, slipped from the record high reached Monday.

Powell made his first Congressional appearance since President Trump's inauguration at the moment. Watch the session here.

In recent trading:

U.S. stocks were little changed. The Dow Jones Industrial Average edged higher while the Nasdaq Composite fell.

The 10-year Treasury yield climbed to around 4.53%, on pace for a fourth consecutive session of gains. It settled Monday at 4.492%.

Brent crude futures rose about 1.5%, toward $77 a barrel. That puts the international oil benchmark on pace for a third-straight day of gains.

Overseas, stock indexes were mixed. The Stoxx Europe 600 ticked higher, while the Shanghai Composite slipped. Hong Kong's Hang Seng fell more than 1%. Japanese markets were closed for a holiday.

Up ahead:

Results from Lyft and Super Micro Computer are due after the close.

This item is part of a Wall Street Journal live coverage event. The full stream can be found by searching P/WSJL (WSJ Live Coverage).

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250211008813:0/)
