---
title: "A Beverly Hills Mansion Built for Groucho Marx Hits the Market — WSJ"
date: "2025-02-13 07:45:00"
summary: "By E.B. SolomontBe the first to know about the biggest and best luxury home sales and listings by signing up for our Mansion Deals email alert.A Beverly Hills, Calif., mansion built for the late comedian Groucho Marx is hitting the market for $19.5 million.Marx, a star of radio, film and..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By E.B. Solomont

Be the first to know about the biggest and best luxury home sales and listings by signing up for our Mansion Deals email alert.

A Beverly Hills, Calif., mansion built for the late comedian Groucho Marx is hitting the market for $19.5 million.

Marx, a star of radio, film and television, commissioned the Trousdale Estates home in the 1950s and lived there until his death in 1977. Designed by the noted architect Wallace Neff, the house was one of the first to be built when the exclusive neighborhood of Trousdale Estates was developed, according to listing agent Lea Porter of the Beverly Hills Estates.

The sellers are Fares and Tania Fares, who bought the home for $14.3 million in 2017, property records show. Fares is the son of the wealthy businessman and former deputy prime minister of Lebanon Issam Fares. Tania is a Lebanon-born fashion writer. The couple declined to comment.

The one-story house spans about 6,000 square feet with five bedrooms, a wood-paneled library and a wine cellar.

"No one has a better time at my house than I do," Marx wrote in his 1976 autobiography "The Groucho Phile: An Illustrated Life." On any given evening, he wrote, dinner guests would end up in the living room for singing and dancing. "An accomplished piano player is always among the invited guests, so that I can commandeer my captive audience and raise my voice in song," he wrote.

Best known as the host of the game show "You Bet Your Life," Marx made a series of films with his brothers Chico, Harpo and Zeppo Marx, collectively known as the Marx Brothers.

The Fareses made few changes to the house, Porter said. There are roughly 12-foot ceilings and curved walls with floor-to-ceiling windows, featuring city and ocean views, she said.

They are selling because they live primarily in London and don't spend much time in California, Porter said. "They thought they'd use it more, but they really don't," Porter said. "They're just not here very much." Fares is vice chairman of Wedge Group, his family's Houston-based investment firm, and Tania is a co-founder of the Fashion Trust, a nonprofit that mentors young designers.

They planned to list the home before wildfires tore through Los Angeles last month, Porter said.

The roughly 3/4 -acre property is notable for its size and orientation, Porter said. It is mostly flat, with a motor court, outdoor pool, sports court and a grassy lawn.

Trousdale Estates has long been a sought-after neighborhood, drawing celebrities such as the comedian David Spade and billionaires including Oakley founder James Jannard. The median sales price for a single-family home in Beverly Hills was $8.475 million during the fourth quarter of 2024, up 21.1% from 2023's third quarter, according to real-estate appraisal firm Miller Samuel. The number of sales rose 70.4% during that time.

Since the fires, displaced people have been scrambling for housing and reshaping the housing market across all price points. "There's a scarcity value now," Porter said.

Write to E.B. Solomont at eb.solomont@wsj.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250212016513:0/)
