---
title: "VOXX International Announces Filing of Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and Results for Fiscal 2025 Third Quarter; Company also Announces Merger Regulatory Approvals"
date: "2025-02-08 05:05:00"
summary: "(21:05 GMT) *VOXX International 3Q Loss/Shr $1.90 &gt;VOXX(21:05 GMT) *VOXX International 3Q Loss $44M &gt;VOXX(21:05 GMT) *VOXX International 3Q Sales $105.2M &gt;VOXX(21:05 GMT) Press Release: VOXX International Announces Filing of Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and Results for Fiscal 2025 Third Quarter; Company also Announces Merger Regulatory ApprovalsVOXX International Announces..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

**(21:05 GMT)** \*VOXX International 3Q Loss/Shr $1.90 >VOXX  
**(21:05 GMT)** \*VOXX International 3Q Loss $44M >VOXX  
**(21:05 GMT)** \*VOXX International 3Q Sales $105.2M >VOXX  
**(21:05 GMT)** Press Release: VOXX International Announces Filing of Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and Results for Fiscal 2025 Third Quarter; Company also Announces Merger Regulatory Approvals

VOXX International Announces Filing of Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and Results for Fiscal 2025 Third Quarter; Company also Announces Merger Regulatory Approvals

PR Newswire

ORLANDO, Fla., Feb. 7, 2025

ORLANDO, Fla., Feb. 7, 2025 /PRNewswire/ — VOXX International Corporation ("VOXX" or the "Company"), a leading manufacturer and distributor of automotive and consumer technologies for the global markets, as well as strategic joint ventures including biometrics, today announced that it has filed its Quarterly Report (the "Quarterly Report) on Form 10-Q for the period ended November 30, 2024 (the "Form 10-Q") with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC").

As previously reported, the Company was unable to timely file the Form 10-Q for its 2025 fiscal third quarter. The delay was primarily related to the Company's entry into an Agreement and Plan of Merger with Gentex Corporation ("Gentex") on December 17, 2025, which caused the Company, in conjunction with its triggering events review, to test its goodwill, other intangible assets and other long-lived assets for impairment, thereby delaying its ability to timely file. On January 28, 2025, the Company received a letter from the Nasdaq Listing Qualifications Department of the Nasdaq Stock Market ("Nasdaq") stating that because the Company had not yet filed the Form 10-Q, the Company was not in compliance with Nasdaq Listing Rule 5250(c)(1), which requires listed companies to timely file all required periodic financial reports with the SEC. Based upon today's filing of the Form 10-Q, the Company expects to receive notification from Nasdaq that it has regained compliance with Rule 5250(c)(1).

Fiscal 2025 and Fiscal 2024 Third Quarter Comparisons

As contained in the Form 10-Q, the Company's Fiscal 2025 third quarter compared with the Fiscal 2024 third quarter as follows:

* Total net sales of $105.2 million compared to $135.3 million, down $30.1 million or 22.2%, with declines in both the Automotive Electronics and Consumer Electronics segments as a result of economic, retail and OEM manufacturing conditions, along with asset sales during Fiscal 2025.
* Gross margin of 21.2% compared to 26.9%, down 570 basis points, driven by $7.0 million in inventory write-downs both in the Automotive Electronics and Consumer Electronics segments.
* Total operating expenses of $76.6 million, up $42.5 million; principally driven by non-cash charges of $44.3 million (including goodwill impairment charges of $28.2 million and intangible asset impairment charges of $16.1 million). Excluding impairment charges, total operating expenses of $32.3 million declined by $1.8 million, an improvement of 5.2% from the prior fiscal year quarter.
* Net loss attributable to VOXX International Corporation of $44.0 million compared to net income attributable to VOXX International Corporation of $1.9 million.
* Earnings before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation and Amortization ("EBITDA") loss of $40.8 million compared to EBITDA of $6.5 million. Adjusted EBITDA loss of $4.7 million compared to Adjusted EBITDA of $8.0 million.

Fiscal 2025 and Fiscal 2024 Nine-Month Comparisons

As contained in the Company's Form 10-Q, the Company's nine-month period ended November 30, 2025 compared to the corresponding prior year period as follows:

* Total net sales of $289.3 million compared to $360.8 million, down $71.5 million or 19.8%, with declines both in the Automotive Electronics and Consumer Electronics segments.
* Gross margin of 24.3% compared to 25.6%, down 130 basis points, including the impact of inventory write-downs taken in Fiscal 2025 third quarter.
* Total operating expenses of $140.9 million, up $30.7 million, principally due to non-cash charges of $44.3 million in the Fiscal 2025 third quarter. Excluding impairment charges, total operating expenses of $96.6 million declined by $13.6 million, an improvement of 12.3%.
* Total other income, net of $13.1 million compared to total other expense, net of $5.9 million.
* Net loss attributable to VOXX International Corporation of $50.8 million compared to net loss attributable to VOXX International Corporation of $19.9 million.
* Earnings before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation and Amortization ("EBITDA") loss of $37.5 million compared to EBITDA loss of $6.5 million. Adjusted EBITDA loss of $10.4 million compared to Adjusted EBITDA of $3.0 million.

Selected Balance Sheet Data

As of November 30, 2024, the Company had cash and cash equivalents of $6.3 million as compared to cash and cash equivalents of $11.0 million as of February 29, 2024. Total debt as of November 30, 2024 was $18.8 million, which consists of $15.0 million outstanding on the Company's Domestic Credit Facility and $3.8 million outstanding on the shareholder loan payable to Sharp Corporation. Total debt as of February 29, 2024 was $73.3 million. Total long-term debt, net of debt issuance costs was $14.5 million as of November 30, 2024 as compared to $71.9 million as of February 29, 2024, an improvement of $57.4 million.

Given the Company's proposed merger transaction with Gentex, the Company is not hosting a conference call to discuss its Fiscal 2025 third quarter financial results.

Proposed Gentex Transaction — Anti-Trust Clearance

The Company today announced that the waiting period with respect to the proposed merger transaction with Gentex under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, as amended (the "HSR Act"), expired at 11:59 p.m. Eastern Time on February 3, 2025. Additionally, on January 27, 2025, a letter was received from the German Federal Cartel Office advising that the proposed merger does not meet the prohibition conditions under the German Competition Act, and the merger may be implemented. The expiration of the HSR Act waiting period and clearance under the German Competition Act satisfy certain conditions to the closing of the merger. The proposed merger remains subject to other customary closing conditions, including approval by the Company's stockholders and the absence of any legal prohibitions against the merger by a governmental authority of competent jurisdiction.

Non-GAAP Measures

EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA are not financial measures recognized by GAAP. EBITDA represents net loss attributable to VOXX International Corporation and Subsidiaries, computed in accordance with GAAP, before interest expense and bank charges, taxes, and depreciation and amortization. Adjusted EBITDA represents EBITDA adjusted for stock-based compensation expense, gains on the sale of certain assets and businesses, foreign currency gains and losses, restructuring expenses, goodwill and intangible asset impairment charges, certain non-routine and non-recurring fees, and awards. Depreciation, amortization, stock-based compensation, foreign currency gains and losses, and goodwill and intangible asset impairment charges are non-cash items.

We present EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA in our Form 10-Q because we consider them to be useful and appropriate supplemental measures of our performance. Adjusted EBITDA helps us to evaluate our performance without the effects of certain GAAP calculations that may not have a direct cash impact on our current operating performance. In addition, the exclusion of certain costs or gains relating to certain events allows for a more meaningful comparison of our results from period-to-period. These non-GAAP measures, as we define them, are not necessarily comparable to similarly entitled measures of other companies and may not be an appropriate measure for performance relative to other companies. EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA should not be assessed in isolation from, are not intended to represent, and should not be considered to be more meaningful measures than, or alternatives to, measures of operating performance as determined in accordance with GAAP.

About VOXX

VOXX International has grown into a worldwide leader in the Automotive Electronics and Consumer Electronics industries. Over the past several decades, VOXX has built market-leading positions in in-vehicle entertainment and automotive security, as well as in a number of premium audio market segments, and more. VOXX is a global company, with an extensive distribution network that includes power retailers, mass merchandisers, 12-volt specialists and many of the world's leading automotive manufacturers. For additional information, please visit our website at www.voxxintl.com.

No Offer or Solicitation

This press release does not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy the securities of the Company or the solicitation of any vote or approval, nor shall there be any offer, solicitation or sale of securities in any jurisdiction in which such offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to registration or qualification under the securities laws of any such jurisdiction. No offer of securities shall be made in the United States absent registration under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or pursuant to an exemption from, or in a transaction not subject to, such registration requirements.

Additional Information Regarding the Merger and Where to Find It This press release relates to the proposed merger involving the Company, Gentex and Instrument Merger Sub, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Gentex, whereby Merger Sub shall be merged with and into the Company (the "proposed merger"), with the Company as the surviving corporation. The proposed merger will be submitted to the stockholders of the Company for their consideration at a special meeting of the stockholders. In connection therewith, the Company intends to file relevant materials with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"), including a definitive proxy statement on Schedule 14A (the "definitive proxy statement") together with a proxy card, which will be mailed or otherwise disseminated to the Company's stockholders when such documents become available, together with a proxy card. The Company, Gentex and Merger Sub jointly filed a Schedule 13E-3 (the "Schedule 13E-3") with the SEC on January 27, 2025, which is subject to update. The Company and Gentex may also file other relevant documents with the SEC regarding the proposed merger. INVESTORS AND STOCKHOLDERS ARE URGED, PRIOR TO MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR VOTING DECISION, TO READ THE DEFINITIVE PROXY STATEMENT, SCHEDULE 13E-3, AS MAY BE AMENDED, AND ANY OTHER RELEVANT DOCUMENTS FILED OR TO BE FILED WITH THE SEC CAREFULLY AND IN THEIR ENTIRETY WHEN THEY BECOME AVAILABLE, BECAUSE THEY WILL CONTAIN IMPORTANT INFORMATION ABOUT THE PROPOSED MERGER. Stockholders may obtain free copies of the definitive proxy statement and Schedule 13E-3, any amendments or supplements thereto, and other documents containing important information about the Company, Gentex and Merger Sub and the proposed merger, once such documents are filed with the SEC, through the website maintained by the SEC at www.sec.gov. Free copies of the documents filed with the SEC can also be obtained on the Company's website at www.voxintl.com or by contacting the Company's investor relations at 917-887-8434 or gwiener@gwcco.com.

This press release may be deemed to be solicitation material in respect of the proposed merger contemplated by the Merger Agreement.

Certain Information Regarding Participants in the Solicitation

The Company, Gentex and certain of their directors, executive officers and employees may, under the rules of the SEC, be deemed to be participants in the solicitation of proxies in connection with the proposed merger. Information regarding the directors and executive officers of the Company, Gentex and Merger Sub is contained in the Company's preliminary proxy statement related to the proposed Merger, as filed with the SEC on January 27, 2025, and the Schedule 13E-3 as filed with the SEC on January 27, 2025 by the Company, Gentex and Merger Sub. A description of the direct or indirect interests, by security holdings or otherwise of the Company's directors and executive officers and Gentex are also included in the preliminary proxy statement, Schedule 13E-3 and other relevant documents filed with the SEC regarding the proposed merger. Free copies of these materials may be obtained as described in the preceding section.

Safe Harbor Statement

Except for historical information contained herein, statements made in this release constitute forward-looking statements and thus may involve certain risks and uncertainties. All forward-looking statements made in this release are based on currently available information and the Company assumes no responsibility to update any such forward-looking statements. The following factors, among others, may cause actual results to differ materially from the results suggested in the forward-looking statements: (i) the possibility that Nasdaq will not consider the Company in compliance with Listing Rule 5250(c)(1) irrespective of the Company's filing of the Form 10-Q, (ii) the risk that the proposed merger may not be completed in a timely manner or at all, which may adversely affect the Company's business and the price of its shares of Class A Common Stock, (iii) other factors described under Risk Factors in our most recent Form 10-K and other filings made by the Company from time to time with the SEC, as such descriptions may be updated or amended in any future reports the Company files with the SEC.

Investor Relations Contact:

Glenn Wiener, President & CEO

GW Communications (for VOXX)

Email: gwiener@gwcco.com

- Tables to Follow -

```
   
  VOXX International Corporation and Subsidiaries Consolidated Balance   
         Sheets (In thousands, except share and per share data)   
                                         November 30,    February 29,   
                                             2024            2024   
                                        --------------  --------------   
                                         (unaudited)   
Assets   
Current assets:   
 Cash and cash equivalents               $       6,349   $      10,986   
 Accounts receivable, net of   
  allowances of $1,921 and $3,041 at   
  November 30, 2024 and February 29,   
  2024, respectively                            79,686          71,066   
 Inventory                                      96,416         128,471   
 Receivables from vendors                          129           1,192   
 Due from Established                              100               -   
 Due from GalvanEyes LLC, current                    -           1,238   
 Prepaid expenses and other current   
  assets                                        14,533          20,820   
 Income tax receivable                           4,933           2,095   
      Total current assets                     202,146         235,868   
Investment securities                              414             828   
Equity investments                              22,428          21,380   
Property, plant and equipment, net              32,937          45,070   
Operating lease, right of use assets             5,067           2,577   
Goodwill                                        35,385          63,931   
Intangible assets, net                          38,483          68,766   
Due from GalvanEyes LLC, less current   
 portion                                             -           1,340   
Deferred income tax assets                          58           1,452   
Other assets                                     1,908           2,794   
                                            ----------      ----------   
      Total assets                       $     338,826   $     444,006   
                                            ==========      ==========   
Liabilities, Redeemable Equity,   
Redeemable Non-Controlling Interest,   
and Stockholders' Equity   
Current liabilities:   
 Accounts payable                        $      40,961   $      35,076   
 Accrued expenses and other current   
  liabilities                                   38,815          38,238   
 Income taxes payable                            1,510           1,123   
 Accrued sales incentives                       21,069          18,236   
 Contract liabilities, current                   3,043           3,810   
 Current portion of long-term debt               3,837             500   
      Total current liabilities                109,235          96,983   
Long-term debt, net of debt issuance   
 costs                                          14,478          71,881   
Finance lease liabilities, less   
 current portion                                   399             644   
Operating lease liabilities, less   
 current portion                                 3,728           1,884   
Deferred compensation                              414             828   
Deferred income tax liabilities                  2,470           2,690   
Other tax liabilities                              719             809   
Prepaid ownership interest in EyeLock   
 LLC due to GalvanEyes LLC                           -           9,817   
Other long-term liabilities                      2,828           2,170   
                                            ----------      ----------   
      Total liabilities                        134,271         187,706   
                                            ----------      ----------   
Commitments and contingencies   
Redeemable equity: Class A, $.01 par   
 value; 604,072 and 577,581 shares at   
 November 30, 2024 and February 29,   
 2024, respectively                              4,218           4,110   
Redeemable non-controlling interest            (9,019)         (3,203)   
Stockholders' equity:   
 Preferred stock:   
 No shares issued or outstanding                     -               -   
 Common stock:   
 Class A, $.01 par value, 60,000,000   
  shares authorized, 24,000,886 and   
  23,985,603 shares issued  and   
  19,649,703 and 19,698,562 shares   
  outstanding at November 30, 2024 and   
  February 29, 2024,  respectively                 240             240   
 Class B Convertible, $.01 par value,   
  10,000,000 shares authorized,   
  2,260,954 shares issued and   
   outstanding at both November 30,   
  2024 and February 29, 2024                        22              22   
 Paid-in capital                               296,137         293,272   
 Retained earnings                               7,449          58,272   
 Accumulated other comprehensive loss         (17,760)        (17,366)   
 Less: Treasury stock, at cost,   
  4,351,183 and 4,287,041 shares of   
  Class A Common Stock at November   
   30, 2024 and February 29, 2024,   
  respectively                                (39,821)        (39,573)   
                                            ----------      ----------   
Total VOXX International Corporation   
 stockholders' equity                          246,267         294,867   
 Non-controlling interest                     (36,911)        (39,474)   
                                            ----------      ----------   
Total stockholders' equity                     209,356         255,393   
                                            ----------      ----------   
Total liabilities, redeemable equity,   
 redeemable non-controlling interest,   
 and stockholders' equity                $     338,826   $     444,006   
                                            ==========      ==========   
   
   
 VOXX International Corporation and Subsidiaries Unaudited Consolidated   
Statements of Operations and Comprehensive (Loss) Income (In thousands,   
                    except share and per share data)   
   
                       Three months ended        Nine months ended   
                          November 30,              November 30,   
                    ------------------------  ------------------------   
                       2024         2023         2024         2023   
                    -----------  -----------  -----------  -----------   
Net sales           $   105,175  $   135,260  $   289,324  $   360,828   
Cost of sales            82,830       98,918      218,878      268,281   
                     ----------   ----------   ----------   ----------   
Gross profit             22,345       36,342       70,446       92,547   
                     ----------   ----------   ----------   ----------   
Operating   
expenses:   
 Selling                  7,638       10,967       25,076       32,154   
 General and   
  administrative         16,294       15,944       48,528       52,621   
 Engineering and   
  technical   
  support                 8,316        7,063       20,660       23,257   
 Goodwill   
  impairment   
  charges                28,171            -       28,171            -   
 Intangible asset   
  impairment   
  charges                16,093            -       16,093            -   
 Restructuring   
  expenses                   49          101        2,378        2,168   
                     ----------   ----------   ----------   ----------   
   Total operating   
    expenses             76,561       34,075      140,906      110,200   
                     ----------   ----------   ----------   ----------   
Operating (loss)   
 income                (54,216)        2,267     (70,460)     (17,653)   
                     ----------   ----------   ----------   ----------   
Other income   
(expense):   
 Interest and bank   
  charges               (1,355)      (1,892)      (5,466)      (5,011)   
 Equity in income   
  of equity   
  investees                 382        1,101          933        3,958   
 Gain on sale of   
  business                    -            -        8,300            -   
 Gain on sale of   
  assets                  7,299            -        9,453            -   
 Final arbitration   
  award                       -        (752)            -      (3,350)   
 Other, net             (2,084)          156        (113)      (1,497)   
                     ----------   ----------   ----------   ----------   
   Total other   
    income   
    (expense),   
    net                   4,242      (1,387)       13,107      (5,900)   
                     ----------   ----------   ----------   ----------   
(Loss) Income   
 before income   
 taxes                 (49,974)          880     (57,353)     (23,553)   
Income tax   
 (benefit)   
 expense                  (513)           97          493         (54)   
                     ----------   ----------   ----------   ----------   
Net (loss) income      (49,461)          783     (57,846)     (23,499)   
Less: net loss   
 attributable to   
 non-controlling   
 interest               (5,495)      (1,129)      (7,023)      (3,609)   
                     ----------   ----------   ----------   ----------   
 Net (loss) income   
  attributable to   
  VOXX   
  International   
  Corporation and   
  Subsidiaries      $  (43,966)  $     1,912  $  (50,823)  $  (19,890)   
Other   
comprehensive   
(loss) income:   
 Foreign currency   
  translation   
  adjustments           (1,037)          279        (779)        1,337   
 Derivatives   
  designated for   
  hedging                   477         (29)          374         (55)   
 Pension plan   
  adjustments                19          (1)           11          (7)   
                     ----------   ----------   ----------   ----------   
 Other   
  comprehensive   
  (loss) income,   
  net of tax              (541)          249        (394)        1,275   
                     ----------   ----------   ----------   ----------   
Comprehensive   
 (loss) income   
 attributable to   
 VOXX   
 International   
 Corporation and   
 Subsidiaries       $  (44,507)  $     2,161  $  (51,217)  $  (18,615)   
                     ==========   ==========   ==========   ==========   
(Loss) Income per   
 share - basic:   
 Attributable to   
 VOXX   
 International   
 Corporation and   
 Subsidiaries       $    (1.90)  $      0.08  $    (2.20)  $    (0.85)   
                     ==========   ==========   ==========   ==========   
(Loss) Income per   
 share - diluted:   
 Attributable to   
 VOXX   
 International   
 Corporation and   
 Subsidiaries       $    (1.90)  $      0.08  $    (2.20)  $    (0.85)   
                     ==========   ==========   ==========   ==========   
Weighted-average   
 common shares   
 outstanding   
 (basic)             23,160,541   23,270,834   23,141,960   23,510,578   
                     ==========   ==========   ==========   ==========   
Weighted-average   
 common shares   
 outstanding   
 (diluted)           23,160,541   23,467,022   23,141,960   23,510,578   
                     ==========   ==========   ==========   ==========   
   
   
  Reconciliation of GAAP Net (Loss) Income Attributable to   
   VOXX International Corporation to EBITDA and Adjusted   
                           EBITDA   
   
                  Three months ended   Nine months ended   
                     November 30,         November 30,   
                  ------------------  --------------------   
                    2024      2023      2024       2023   
                  ---------  -------  ---------  ---------   
Net (loss)   
 income   
 attributable to   
 VOXX   
 International   
 Corporation and   
 Subsidiaries     $(43,966)  $ 1,912  $(50,823)  $(19,890)   
Adjustments:   
 Interest   
  expense and   
  bank charges   
  (1)                 1,144    1,688      4,825      4,405   
 Depreciation   
  and   
  amortization   
  (1)                 2,569    2,808      8,024      9,003   
 Income tax   
  (benefit)   
  expense             (513)       97        493       (54)   
                   --------   ------   --------   --------   
EBITDA             (40,766)    6,505   (37,481)    (6,536)   
Stock-based   
 compensation           262      177        820        643   
Gain on sale of   
 tradename                -        -          -      (450)   
Gain on sale of   
 business                 -        -    (8,300)          -   
Gain on sale of   
 assets             (7,299)        -    (9,453)          -   
Foreign currency   
 losses (1)           2,413      144      1,058      2,320   
Restructuring   
 expenses                49      101      2,378      2,168   
Goodwill   
 impairment   
 charges (1)         24,985        -     24,985          -   
Intangible asset   
 impairment   
 charges (1)         14,411        -     14,411          -   
Non-recurring   
 ERP   
 implementation   
 costs                    -        -         55          -   
Gain on   
 termination of   
 interest rate   
 swap                  (47)        -       (47)          -   
Non-recurring   
 due diligence   
 fees                 1,112        -      1,112          -   
Non-routine   
 legal fees             191      318         66      1,549   
Final   
 arbitration   
 award                    -      752          -      3,350   
Adjusted EBITDA   $ (4,689)  $ 7,997  $(10,396)  $   3,044   
                   ========   ======   ========   ========   
   
   
   
(1)  For purposes of calculating Adjusted EBITDA for the Company, interest   
     expense and bank charges, depreciation and amortization, foreign currency   
     gains and losses, and goodwill and intangible asset impairment charges   
     have been adjusted in order to exclude the non-controlling interest   
     portion of these expenses attributable to EyeLock LLC and Onkyo   
     Technology KK, as appropriate.   
 
```

View original content to download multimedia:https://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/voxx-international-announces-filing-of-quarterly-report-on-form-10-q-and-results-for-fiscal-2025-third-quarter-company-also-announces-merger-regulatory-approvals-302371520.html

SOURCE VOXX International Corporation

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250207010040:0/)
