---
title: "Global Equities Roundup: Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-11 18:00:00"
summary: "The latest Market Talks covering Equities. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.1000 GMT - UBS's lower leverage, higher earnings and lower valuation prompt Deutsche Bank to upgrade its rating on the stock, the brokerage says in a research note after the Swiss bank's quarterly results. \"We think..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The latest Market Talks covering Equities. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.

1000 GMT - UBS's lower leverage, higher earnings and lower valuation prompt Deutsche Bank to upgrade its rating on the stock, the brokerage says in a research note after the Swiss bank's quarterly results. "We think the actions on capital return and managing regulatory risks should provide some comfort to investors, in particular as compared to understandably conservative management statements on the call," analysts Benjamin Goy and Sharath Kumar write. The long-term investment case is based on capital generation, given that there are no easy fixes available for the too-big-to-fail issues, they say. Regulatory uncertainty remains ahead of the Swiss consultation in May, they add. Deutsche raises its rating on the stock to buy from hold and its target price to 37 euros from 29 euros. Shares trade at 30.2 euros and have risen 9% in the year to date. (elena.vardon@wsj.com)

0956 GMT - Kering's full-year results confirm that there is a lot of work ahead, Citi analysts Thomas Chauvet and Mahesh Mohankumar write in a note. The French luxury group reported revenue of 17.19 billion euros for 2024, down 12% on year. The company's flagship brand, Gucci, posted a 24% decline in sales. Following last week's news that Gucci's creative director Sabato De Sarno would be departing after only two years and four collections, the lack of a replacement announcement today might disappoint, they say. Shares are up 2.7% at 250.80 euros. (andrea.figueras@wsj.com)

0956 GMT - Bellway enters the second half with a strong orderbook propping up end-of-year volume expectations of at least 8,500 homes, Goodbody analyst Shane Carberry says in a note. The company's first-half performance was strong despite challenging market conditions. Although management is encouraged by the seasonal pick-up in customer enquiries and reservation rates in the early weeks of the spring season, it remains mindful of mortgage affordability, Carberry says. Goodbody sees underlying operating profit of 289 million pounds being in line with consensus of 291 million pounds, he says. "Numbers now look well underpinned given the strong volume delivery in 1H and the strength of the orderbook... into 2H," Carberry says. Shares are down 5.2% at 2,430 pence. (anthony.orunagoriainoff@dowjones.com)

0953 GMT - Kuehne + Nagel will likely tone down its ambitious 2026 targets at its upcoming capital markets day, AlphaValue analyst Kulwinder Rajpal writes. In 2023, the company unveiled plans to grow group EBIT at a compound annual growth rate of 17%-19% between 2019 and 2026, and achieve a conversion rate (EBIT to Gross Profit) of 25%-30% by 2026. Rajpal says consensus never bought into the targets then and doesn't expect the company's fortunes to brighten over the next two years. AlphaValue expects volume growth to remain in the quagmire, and sees marginal headwinds from the abatement of the Red Sea crisis and trade wars. "These factors put the original target well out of sight." Shares rise 0.6% to 205 Swiss francs. (dominic.chopping@wsj.com)

0937 GMT - BP's quarterly profit fell to a four-year low as seasonal weakness, refining margins and maintenance worked dragged on its results, Derren Nathan, head of equity research at Hargreaves Lansdown, writes. Much of this was well trailed in BP's performance update so investors shouldn't be too surprised, he adds. As the British energy giant updates on its strategy later this month, activist investor Elliott Investment Management will be examining the returns profile on BP's assets, he adds. BP's shares trade up 0.3% at 46.64 pounds and are up nearly 20% over the year to date. (adam.whittaker@wsj.com)

0937 GMT - Singapore's FTSE Straits Times Index closed 0.4% lower at 3860.76, tracking U.S. futures ahead of Fed Chair Jerome Powell's two-day testimony before Congress. Markets expect Powell to retain his stance that the Fed is in no hurry to cut rates further, and he is expected to avoid confrontation with Trump regarding inflation risks from tariffs, Elisabet Kopelman of SEB Research said in a note. Among decliners, Mapletree Industrial Trust fell 3.3%, Sembcorp Industries lost 1.9% and DBS Group was 1.2% lower. Meanwhile, SATS rose 1.9%, Venture Corp. gained 1.2% and Seatrium was 0.9% higher. Among individual movers, Paragon REIT jumped 11% after its sponsor offered to take the retail investment trust private. (kimberley.kao@wsj.com)

0933 GMT - Bellway is experiencing a pickup in the spring selling season after a subdued autumn, with the order book 30% ahead of a year ago, Peel Hunt analysts Sam Cullen and Clyde Lewis say in a note. The U.K. housebuilder is experiencing an encouraging improvement in demand levels despite consumers remaining sensitive to mortgage rates, the analysts say. The company expects to deliver at least 8,500 homes this year, with an average selling price of 310,000 pounds and underlying margins of 11%. This implies an underlying operating profit of around 290 million pounds which is 2% to 3% above Peel Hunt's forecasts. "Sustained improvements in affordability should help to drive demand forward, while outlets are beginning to return to net growth," the analysts say. Shares are down 5.5% at 2,422 pence. (anthony.orunagoriainoff@dowjones.com)

0932 GMT - Base metal prices fall, with LME three-month copper down 0.9% at $9,367 a metric ton and LME three-month aluminum down 0.4% at $2,649.50 a ton. Metal prices slip after gaining in Monday's session, with copper and aluminum both up on-week. President Trump proposed over the weekend to raise U.S. aluminum import tariffs to 25% from 10% and remove all exemptions, Goldman Sachs analysts say in a note. Assuming no exemptions, aluminum and steel tariffs will largely be passed through to U.S. prices only, Goldman writes. Goldman expects the U.S. Midwest aluminum premium to more than double to 50 cents a pound. Separately, markets are pricing in over a 90% probability of a 10% copper import duty by March, though Goldman Sachs retains a baseline estimate of a 70% chance of a 10% tariff by the end of 2025. (joseph.hoppe@wsj.com)

0918 GMT - There may be good opportunities in Chinese equities thanks to a recent AI boost and China's measured retaliatory measures in response to Trump's tariff action, Julius Baer analysts write in an email. This trading window may last until the National People's Congress meeting in March, the analysts add. Beneficiaries of China's AI boom and authorities' stimulus measures are likely to outperform in the near term, they say. DeepSeek's success has driven optimism among investors that Chinese technology companies may still do well in the AI race despite restricted U.S. chip access, they say. The investment bank maintains its year-end targets for the Hang Seng Index and the Shanghai Shenzhen 300 Index at 24000 and 4600, respectively. (jiahui.huang@wsj.com; @ivy\_jiahuihuang)

0917 GMT - Entain's CEO departure is a disappointing development for the group, Goodbody analyst David Brohan writes in a note. "The group spent nine months to hire Gavin Isaacs, and by all accounts he was regarded as a strong candidate by stakeholders," Brohan says. The resignation wasn't related to the group strategy, he adds. Despite the reiterated guidance for 2024 and 2025 to be in line with current market expectations, today's announcement will be received poorly, he says. Shares are down 10.8% at 662 pence. (najat.kantouar@wsj.com)

0912 GMT - The outcome BPER Banca's takeover offer will depend on how the market digests the all-share deal, Citi says in a research note. BPER is the latest Italian bank to join the recent surge in M&A activity in Italy. The lender's bid for Banca Popolare di Sondrio shouldn't be surprising based on their common product companies. The banks share a main shareholder, and there is a low acceptance threshold, so the deal could be successful, analyst Azzurra Guelfi writes. Still, "the market yet again has an important role and will likely look for a higher price while debating the benefits for minority shareholders." Meanwhile, questions remain on BPER's financial metrics, which led Citi to cut its stock rating to hold from buy. BPER shares have fallen 8% and Sondrio's have risen 3% since Thursday night's announcement. (elena.vardon@wsj.com)

0859 GMT - The Indian equities selloff has opened up opportunities, HSBC strategists say. They see the software sector as showing improving growth prospects, adding that it stands to gain from a weak rupee. Lenders can benefit from less restrictive monetary policy, and they also like consumer names that can tap India's rural demand recovery or markets overseas. They favor electronics maker Dixon, which is supported by industry and policy tailwinds. Automaker Maruti Suzuki stands out for its export potential and rural market positioning, while insurance platform PB Fintech can grow at 2X-3X the industry rate thanks to competitive advantages. HSBC also likes Godrej Properties, whose large land bank lets it grow in tough times, and LTIMindtree, which is well-placed for rising IT services demand. HSBC has buy calls on all five. (fabiana.negrinochoa@wsj.com)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250211002202:0/)
