---
title: "Global Forex and Fixed Income Roundup: Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-14 14:55:00"
summary: "The latest Market Talks covering FX and Fixed Income. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.0655 GMT - Bitcoin's pullback to the $96,000 zone from a peak of $109,000 in January 2025 reflects a bearish trend amid a market mood shaped by macroeconomic factors, says Antonio Di Giacomo,..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The latest Market Talks covering FX and Fixed Income. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.

0655 GMT - Bitcoin's pullback to the $96,000 zone from a peak of $109,000 in January 2025 reflects a bearish trend amid a market mood shaped by macroeconomic factors, says Antonio Di Giacomo, senior market analyst at XS.com. Amid geopolitical uncertainty and stock market fluctuations, institutional investors have reduced their exposure to crypto in search of safer assets, he says. Stronger-than-expected U.S. inflation data and Trump tariffs have contributed to volatility, with pressure on bitcoin exacerbated by tightening regulations in various jurisdictions, he adds. However, this could present an opportunity to accumulate. The analyst notes that the bitcoin ecosystem continues to show signs of long-term growth, with institutional adoption and blockchain infrastructure advancing. Bitcoin is last at $96,713. (fabiana.negrinochoa@wsj.com)

0651 GMT - The risk-on mood, combined with attractive yield levels and good eurozone government bond supply absorption, is still helping country spreads to tighten, say Societe Generale Research's rates strategists. "If there is no repricing higher of the European Central Bank terminal rate and the general appetite for eurozone government bonds continues, there is no reason to expect a sharp widening in spreads," they say in a note. Good news on the political front in France--with the government recently surviving a no-confidence vote--has also supported the 10-year French OAT-German Bund spread, they say. That said, Societe Generale Research maintains a defensive--or cautious--stance on French bonds. (emese.bartha@wsj.com)

0648 GMT - SEB Research is comfortable with its medium-term target of 2.30% for the 10-year Bund yield, says chief strategist Jussi Hiljanen in a note. The anticipated small decline in yields by mid-2025 from the current levels of around 2.41% reflects the ECB's cautiousness over interest rate cuts, he says. "We expect markets to soften ECB pricing only slowly, reflecting the ECB's cautious approach to rate cuts," Hiljanen says. The ECB's balance sheet reduction largely offsets the impact of rate cuts on long-end bond yields, leaving the German 10-year Bund yield with only minimal downside potential in the coming months, he says. (emese.bartha@wsj.com)

0646 GMT - Singapore's non-oil domestic exports likely rose 0.8% on year in January, according to the median estimate of five economists polled by the Wall Street Journal. That would compare with a 9.0% expansion in December. Barclays analysts reckon an unfavorable holiday base effect from the Lunar New Year festivities likely dragged NODX into "deeply negative territory." According to official estimates, Singapore's NODX is expected to grow by 1.0% to 3.0% this year. The export data are due Monday.(amanda.lee@wsj.com)

0626 GMT - It'll be tough for Singapore's economy to replicate its 2024 performance this year, but it should still show some resilience in the face of intensifying external headwinds, Nomura analysts say. GDP growth surged to 4.4% last year, with stronger-than-expected industrial output supported by robust semiconductor production amid a global tech upcycle, Euben Paracuelles and Charnon Boonnuch write. They forecast 2025 GDP growth at 2.8%, a slowdown from last year in part due to weaker external demand and higher global policy uncertainty under Trump 2.0. Support is likely to come from an expansionary fiscal stance ahead of general elections, along with electronics output supporting manufacturing growth in 1H, they add. "Labor market conditions should also underpin household spending, given signs of still-robust wage and employment growth," they say. (fabiana.negrinochoa@wsj.com)

0607 GMT - The Philippines central bank's reason for an easing pause is clear: it wants policy to be flexible amid trade uncertainties, HSBC economist Aris Dacanay says. "BSP isn't alone here," he says, with flexibility also a priority for Bank of Thailand at its last meeting. That's an asset in the event of sudden Fed rates repricing, and an easing pause supports the peso and mitigates the risk of FX-driven inflation, he adds. The hold implies that FX volatility remains a concern but currency worries could be eclipsed if domestic growth continues to underperform, he says. BSP may eventually cut more than the Fed to make the peso more competitive, and aid exports at a time when supply chains are shifting. HSBC expects BSP to resume cutting in June. (fabiana.negrinochoa@wsj.com)

0517 GMT - The Bank of Thailand is mostly likely to lower rates in April, Citi Research economist Nalin Chutchotitham says in a report. This view is based on factors including an expected narrowing of Thailand's negative output gap in the near term and domestic inflation remaining above 1% in 1Q, the economist says. However, there's a risk that the BOT might cut rates sooner, in February, given that monetary policy operates with a long lag and any material downside surprises in the upcoming 4Q 2024 GDP data could increase this risk, the economist adds. (ronnie.harui@wsj.com)

0509 GMT - China isn't an obvious target for reciprocal tariffs, but that doesn't mean Beijing can breathe a sigh of relief, Capital Economics says. On the commonly used most-favored-nation tariff schedules, China's average tariff rate on U.S. imports is 4.1% higher than vice versa, but this excludes tariffs imposed since the first trade war, economist Julian Evans-Pritchard writes. "Adjusting for that, we estimate that China's average tariff rate on U.S. imports is actually 7.5% lower than in the other direction." Reciprocal tariffs highlight how serious Trump is about reducing the trade deficit--not just in terms of tariff rates, but also regarding tax regimes, non-tariff barriers and exchange rate policies, he says. The broad set of criteria suggests ample scope to justification for further tariffs on China. (fabiana.negrinochoa@wsj.com)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250214001936:0/)
