---
title: "Heard on the Street Recap: Whirlwind — WSJ"
date: "2025-02-08 06:45:00"
summary: "By Heard EditorsAfter a dizzying barrage of tariff threats, executive orders and swift U-turns, the Trump administration isn't quite done with market-moving announcements.On Friday, Trump said he supports an agreement that would allow Nippon Steel to invest in, rather than acquire, U.S. Steel. The Biden administration had blocked the Japanese..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Heard Editors

After a dizzying barrage of tariff threats, executive orders and swift U-turns, the Trump administration isn't quite done with market-moving announcements.

On Friday, Trump said he supports an agreement that would allow Nippon Steel to invest in, rather than acquire, U.S. Steel. The Biden administration had blocked the Japanese company's proposed acquisition of U.S. Steel. U.S. Steel shares fell 5.8%, while U.S.-listed shares of Nippon Steel rose 3.1%. EV charging stocks lost energy after the new administration halted federal funding for new EV charging stations. ChargePoint and EVgo fell 12% and 7.5%, respectively.

The onslaught of potentially disruptive changes-tariffs in particular-seem to be weighing on consumer sentiment. It has taken a nosedive to the lowest reading since July 2024, according to the University of Michigan's preliminary February survey. In particular, expectations of inflation in the year ahead jumped to 4.3% from 3.3% in January. Meanwhile, fresh data on Friday showed that the U.S. labor market still looks fairly solid, despite slowing job additions.

But the troubling consumer sentiment reading, and still more tariff threats from Trump, sent stocks falling on Friday. The Nasdaq Composite shed 1.4%, the Dow Jones Industrial Average declined 0.99%, or 444 points, and the S&P 500 fell 0.95%. All three indexes ended the week lower.

This analysis comes from the Journal's Heard on the Street team. Subscribe to their free daily afternoon newsletter here.

This item is part of a Wall Street Journal live coverage event. The full stream can be found by searching P/WSJL (WSJ Live Coverage).

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250207011364:0/)
