---
title: "McDonald's Remains Bullish on Beverages — Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-10 22:54:00"
summary: "0954 ET - McDonald's continues to work on opportunities to push new beverages in new and existing stores, as consumers are interested in the products and they deliver appealing profits. The company says in a 4Q earnings call that it remains committed to its beverage-oriented CosMc's test, and has learned..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

0954 ET - McDonald's continues to work on opportunities to push new beverages in new and existing stores, as consumers are interested in the products and they deliver appealing profits. The company says in a 4Q earnings call that it remains committed to its beverage-oriented CosMc's test, and has learned that smaller locations with drive-throughs have performed better than some bigger stores. The company said recently it will close some underperforming CosMc's units as it refines the offering. McDonald's is up 4.7% in early trading. (heather.haddon@wsj.com; @heatherhaddon)

0953 ET - McDonald's 2024 was plagued by pressure on spending and food-safety concerns, both of which dragged down results. CFO Ian Borden says on a call with analysts that the quick-service industry was largely hurt by lower spending last year, with McDonald's noticing a significant pullback among families and low-income customers. The burger chain also dealt with the fallout of an E. coli outbreak on its domestic business last year. "Obviously, our performance in 2024 did not meet our expectations," CEO Chris Kempczinski says. Shares rise 4.9% after the release of 4Q results. (connor.hart@wsj.com)

0928 ET - The dollar weakens against most major currencies while dollar indexes rise, as markets react to a new set of tariffs announced by President Trump over the weekend. Both the ICE's DXY gauge and the broader WSJ Dollar Index rise around 0.1%, while the greenback weakens 0.2% against the euro and strengthens 0.3% versus the yen. The 25% levy on all steel and aluminum imports to the U.S. looks less likely to be avoided the way previous country-targeting tariffs were. Goldman Sachs' Stuart Jenkins writes that "we think they would have a more durable Dollar impact that the market is not yet fully pricing." (paulo.trevisani@wsj.com; @ptrevisani)

0915 ET - McDonald's says consumers across its markets remained pressured in 2024, particularly low-income diners and families, but believes the picture will improve this year. The company says in a 4Q investor call that its financial expectations this year reflect a "gradual stabilization of the macroeconomic and consumer environment." Its financial growth targets don't include any impact from potential new tariffs from the Trump administration, however. McDonald's is up 2.6% premarket. (heather.haddon@wsj.com; @heatherhaddon)

0911 ET - Treasury yields hover around Friday's settlement levels as the week once again starts with the threat of tariffs announced over the weekend. This time around, there seems to be less room for negotiation to avoid a 25% levy on steel and aluminium. Questions remain about how tariffs will impact inflation and Fed decisions on interest rates. Markets are mostly pricing not more than one cut this year, CME data show. That could be a sign of growing concerns about inflation. Chair Powell has his semiannual report to Congress tomorrow at the Senate and Wednesday at the House. The 10-year is at 4.486% and the two-year at 4.271%. (paulo.trevisani@wsj.com; @ptrevisani)

0907 ET - Investors have been shying away from Jamieson Wellness as they look for the safer haven of larger cap companies, but TD Cowen's Derek Lessard thinks the pullback is unwarranted. So far in the year, the stock has pulled back 15% to C$31.11, nearly wiping out the gains of the past 52 weeks. But there are plenty of positives to drive the stock, including strong contributions from the Chinese market. "With no negative operational news, our positive outlook on 4Q and longer-term is unchanged," he says in a report. The fundamentals are the same, and with the stock down, it "makes the pullback an attractive buying opportunity." (adriano.marchese@wsj.com)

0857 ET - Oil futures start the week higher after three consecutive weeks of losses as the U.S. plans to place tariffs on all steel and aluminum imports while Chinese retaliatory tariffs on U.S. oil and gas go into effect. The steel and aluminum tariffs "are apparently supportive to oil, dollar, equities, etc.," Ritterbusch says in a note. "Geopolitical premium that had supported oil values across last year have now been replaced by a tariff premium that will remain elevated for at least another three weeks until a White House decision is made regarding hefty tariffs on Canada and Mexico that will directly impact the flow of crude into the U.S.," the firm adds. WTI is up 1.3% at $71.91 a barrel, and Brent is up 1.2% at $75.56 a barrel. (anthony.harrup@wsj.com)

0855 ET - Shifts in consumer demand and food regulation are posing risks for many big food makers, but Hain Celestial says it sees developments as a tailwind. The organic food maker says its products use no artificial colors, including Red 3, which the FDA recently banned in food. Hain also says it has been working with experts to understand the nutritional needs of weight-loss drug users, and that it plans to begin marketing some of its goods to those consumers in the near future. "Our positioning and free-from-artificials portfolio is a true differentiator, particularly in the US," says Hain CEO Wendy Davidson, noting that Hain only uses colors from natural sources like fruits and vegetables.(jesse.newman@wsj.com)

0854 ET - Elliott Management hasn't made a hostile approach to the BP board and will seek a more "suggestivist" approach to get its ideas across, AJ Bell investment director Russ Mould writes. Elliott is reportedly seeking better shareholder value but it is hard to see how it can campaign for higher dividends or share buybacks, he writes. In 2024, BP delivered $5 billion in dividends and ran share buybacks worth $7.3 billion, he says. Elliott might want BP to refocus its strategy on oil-and-gas production, better allocate capex, or shift its listing to the U.S., Mould says. Shares trade up 7.3% at 464.65 pence. (adam.whittaker@wsj.com)

0851 ET - Barclays thinks Friday's 26% plunge in Newell Brands was likely overdone. Analyst Lauren Lieberman says in a note that while guidance came in below street estimates and the company reported a weak quarter, "not one investor we spoke to viewed Newell's share price reaction... as warranted (and nor do we)." Lieberman says Wall Street "is trying to rationalize what feels like an irrational move." The analyst reiterates her overweight recommendation on Newell Brands and $11 price target. Newell is up 4.2% to $7.43 premarket. (Natasha.Khan@wsj.com)

0849 ET - Canada stands to bear the brunt of the pain from President Trump's 25% tariff on steel and aluminum tariffs. Canada is the top exporter to the U.S. of steel, accounting for about 25% of steel imports, via the International Trade Administration. Mexico is No. 2 at about 15%. Canada is by far the biggest seller to the US of aluminum, accounting for 60% of imports. Canada won a reprieve last week on 25% tariffs on all its nonenergy US-bound exports, which Trump says he will revisit early next month to ensure Ottawa is living up to its commitment to fortify border security and deter fentanyl trafficking. (Paul.Vieira@wsj.com, @paulvieira)

0813 ET - Hain Celestial lowers its annual guidance amid problems in the company's snacks and personal care businesses. The organic food maker says poor "in-store performance" in snacks hurt Hain's F2Q results, with problems tied to marketing and promotions. Hain also experienced challenges with tea ingredients, the company says. Hain cuts its outlook for both earnings and sales in 2025, and says it is exploring strategic options for its personal care business. Hain posts sales of $411M, below analyst estimates, and its adjusted EPS also misses expectations. Hain Celestial is off 7% premarket. (jesse.newman@wsj.com)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250210006450:0/)
