---
title: "Scripps promotes sports sales executive to lead local media sales"
date: "2025-02-12 03:30:00"
summary: "Scripps promotes sports sales executive to lead local media salesPR NewswireCINCINNATI, Feb. 11, 2025CINCINNATI, Feb. 11, 2025 /PRNewswire/ — The E.W. Scripps Company has tapped veteran sales executive Tony Lamerato to lead all revenue strategy and business development efforts across Scripps' more than 60 local television stations as vice president..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Scripps promotes sports sales executive to lead local media sales

PR Newswire

CINCINNATI, Feb. 11, 2025

CINCINNATI, Feb. 11, 2025 /PRNewswire/ — The E.W. Scripps Company has tapped veteran sales executive Tony Lamerato to lead all revenue strategy and business development efforts across Scripps' more than 60 local television stations as vice president of local media sales, effective Feb. 17.

Lamerato will be responsible for driving revenue-generating initiatives across Scripps' local advertising markets — from monetizing Scripps' sports inventory to helping its local sales teams foster business growth in their communities.

Lamerato, who joined Scripps in 2016, most recently served as vice president of sports revenue and sponsorships. In this role, he led the revenue and sponsorship strategy for Scripps Sports, helping to model and value sports rights and advertising opportunities for Scripps' local sports partnerships, including the Big Sky Conference and the NHL's Vegas Golden Knights, Florida Panthers and Utah Hockey Club. He also worked closely with divisions across Scripps to advance the sales process.

Prior to his role with Scripps Sports, he served as senior director of revenue strategy for Scripps' Local Media division. He was previously director of sales for WXYZ and WMYD — Scripps' ABC and independent stations in Detroit. Before joining Scripps, Lamerato was local sales manager at Fox Sports Detroit.

"Tony is a proven sales leader who goes the extra mile to deliver the best results for both our Scripps teams and our advertisers," said Brian Norris, Scripps chief revenue officer. "He'll be an important part of our success as Scripps continues to create meaningful connections with consumers and advertisers on every platform."

Lamerato is vice chairman of the board of directors for Diversified Members Credit Union and also serves on the board of directors for the Michigan Association of Broadcasters.

He holds a bachelor's degree in business administration and sports management from Aquinas College.

Media contact: Becca McCarter, The E.W. Scripps Company, 513-410-2425, Rebecca.mccarter@scripps.com

About Scripps

The E.W. Scripps Company is a diversified media company focused on creating a better-informed world. As one of the nation's largest local TV broadcasters, Scripps serves communities with quality, objective local journalism and operates a portfolio of more than 60 stations in 40+ markets. Scripps reaches households across the U.S. with national news outlets Scripps News and Court TV and popular entertainment brands ION, ION Plus, ION Mystery, Bounce, Grit and Laff. Scripps is the nation's largest holder of broadcast spectrum. Scripps is the longtime steward of the Scripps National Spelling Bee. Founded in 1878, Scripps' long-time motto is: "Give light and the people will find their own way."

Scripps in the news Scripps press releases

View original content to download multimedia:https://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/scripps-promotes-sports-sales-executive-to-lead-local-media-sales-302373904.html

SOURCE The E.W. Scripps Company

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250211008877:0/)
