---
title: "North American Morning Briefing: Stock Futures Fall as Inflation Report Enters Spotlight"
date: "2025-02-12 19:10:00"
summary: "OPENING CALLStock futures edged lower on Wednesday while Treasury yields rose as investor attention shifted from tariffs to inflation data.With no updates on President Trump's plans to impose levies, the January consumer price index print will likely be the main market driver.Traders will be watching to see if the data..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

OPENING CALL

Stock futures edged lower on Wednesday while Treasury yields rose as investor attention shifted from tariffs to inflation data.

With no updates on President Trump's plans to impose levies, the January consumer price index print will likely be the main market driver.

Traders will be watching to see if the data tallies with the prevailing narrative that the Federal Reserve will not cut interest rates in the coming months.

Economists expect the consumer-price index to rise 2.9% from a year earlier, the same rate seen in December.

That reading would mean consumer inflation is still above the Fed's 2% target, a trend acknowledged by Jerome Powell on Tuesday when he told the Senate "we do not need to be in a hurry to adjust our policy stance" .

Powell returns to Congress today for a second round of testimony.

Stocks to Watch

DoorDash was rising 6.2% after estimating that first-quarter marketplace gross order value would be higher than expected.

Gilead Sciences reported fourth-quarter adjusted earnings of $1.90 a share, topping the consensus estimate, and issued better-than-expected guidance for fiscal 2025. The stock was up 4.5%.

Lyft was down 11% after saying it expects first-quarter gross bookings of $4.05 billion to $4.2 billion, shy of Wall Street's expectations.

Super Micro Computer rose 5.4% after issuing strong guidance for fiscal 2026.

Tesla was falling 2.1%. Investors have been fretting about Elon Musk's distractions, including his move to wrest control of OpenAI from Sam Altman and running the newly formed Department of Government Efficiency.

Upstart increased 29% after saying it expects first-quarter revenue of about $200 million, better than analysts' forecasts.

Zillow declined 6.7% after it reported fourth-quarter adjusted earnings and revenue that beat Wall Street expectations, but its outlook for the first quarter missed consensus.

Watch For:

Consumer Price Index; EIA Weekly Petroleum Report; earnings from Cisco, CVS Health and Kraft Heinz

Today's Top Headlines/Must Reads:

- How Mexico's Leader Is Writing the Playbook for Handling Trump

- How Car Insurance Would Help Tariffs Cast a Long Inflation Shadow

- Are Trump's Attempts to Overhaul the Federal Workforce Legal?

MARKET WRAPS

Forex:

The dollar traded steady as investors weighed remarks from Powell and looked ahead to the inflation data.

Softer-than-expected inflation data would soothe concerns about price pressures and weaken the dollar, Swissquote Bank said.

Conversely, it added, a stronger-than-expected set of inflation figures could back a further rise in U.S. yields and the dollar, and weigh on risk appetite.

The outperformance of eurozone equities this year, with several indexes hitting record highs, is unlikely to offer much support to the euro, ING said.

Periods of rotation into eurozone equities have helped the euro in the past as equity investments are largely non-foreign exchange hedged.

"Frankly, it's hard to see such optimism coming through for the euro today."

Growth remains weak, fiscal policy support is lacking and the European Central Bank could cut interest rates by another 100 basis points this year, meaning any recovery in the euro could be limited, according to ING.

Sterling and gilts look unappealing due to the combination of weak growth and above-target inflation in the U.K., Pepperstone said.

"The U.K. continues to face a 'stagflationary' economic backdrop."

Bitcoin edged lower on market volatility and investor caution ahead of the inflation data release.

"Recent geopolitical tensions and economic uncertainties have contributed to the cautious sentiment among investors," Zaye Capital Markets said.

The cryptocurrency market, particularly bitcoin, might have reached a peak, Zaye added.

Bonds:

Treasury yields edged higher, extending the previous day's move, ahead of the January inflation data.

"Even if the annual rate falls back, the threats of Trump tariffs and strong growth continue to be an upside risk to inflation," SEB Research said.

Treasury yields had risen Tuesday, more so on the long end, as Powell repeated his remarks on the speed of cutting interest rates.

Energy:

Oil retreated in early trade following reports of a large U.S. crude stockpiles build.

Crude oil inventories rose by 9.04 million barrels last week against expectations of a 2.4-million-barrel rise, according to reports citing figures from the American Petroleum Institute ahead of official data later on Wednesday.

"If confirmed by the Energy Information Administration, this would be the biggest inventory build in a year," ING said.

European natural-gas also retreated after reaching its highest level in two years.

"The rally in European gas prices took a breather amid concerns by traders that the recent gains were overdone. Nevertheless, the issues which have been driving prices higher remain intact."

Cold weather and low wind speeds have significantly increased fuel demand in recent weeks, leading to faster-than-expected depletion of storage facilities and raising concerns over summer refill rates.

Metals:

Gold futures fell, but remained close to all-time highs.

Metals Focus said many central banks are buying the precious metal to reduce reliance on the dollar, boosting gold's appeal to institutional investors who want to diversify beyond U.S. equities.

Gold's rise also reflects uncertainty about President Trump's plans, particularly for tariffs, creating a major dislocation between the main futures market, Comex in New York, and the main physical market in London.

The market still seems bullish and further gains can't be ruled out near term, though Metals Focus is wary of medium-term sustainability.

TODAY'S TOP HEADLINES

Lyft Sees Growth Slowdown in Gross Bookings

Ride-sharing company Lyft braced investors for a deceleration in bookings growth ahead amid a pricing war with Uber Technologies, sending shares lower in after-hours trading.

The San Francisco company's stock was down 9.7%, to $13, after Tuesday's market close. The shares had jumped 19% over the past 12 months.

Super Micro Computer Stock Climbs on Lofty 2026 Outlook

Shares of Super Micro Computer jumped after the company set a sales outlook for fiscal 2026 that blows past current Wall Street forecasts, unwinding a selloff earlier in the day.

The maker of server and computer products said after the bell on Tuesday that heavy adoption of its direct-liquid-cooling technology in data centers over the next 12 months should pave the way for $40 billion in revenue for the fiscal year that ends halfway through calendar 2026.

Robinhood Stock Has Soared Along With Crypto. What to Expect From Its Earnings.

Shares of Robinhood have had a tremendous run, skyrocketing 351% over the past 12 months. When the company reports earnings Wednesday, shareholders will be looking for signs that the good times can continue to roll.

Wall Street analysts expect Robinhood to report fourth-quarter earnings per share of 41 cents on revenue of $934 million. That compares with earnings of three cents and revenue of $471 million for the fourth quarter of 2023.

Why Today's Inflation Report Is Especially Important

Not every monthly inflation report is created equally. In an economy with price pressures, January has packed a bigger punch.

Price hikes in recent years have been exceptionally strong in the month of January, reflecting outsize turn-of-the-year price resets. The upshot is that inflation reports due this week could show whether the Federal Reserve's fight to bring inflation down has cleared a key hurdle.

Trump Advisers Eye Bank Regulator Consolidation After Targeting CFPB

Trump administration officials are discussing plans to curtail and combine the power of banking regulators-without Congress's input.

In recent discussions, Trump advisers and allies have examined whether it is possible to collapse the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. into the Treasury Department, according to people familiar with the matter. They have also discussed combining the FDIC's regulatory role with the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency under Treasury.

America's Most Famous Stock-Market Measure Is More Broken Than Usual

The Dow has always been flawed, but it held on to its status as the iconic gauge of American stocks because a mix of luck and design meant it mostly matched the broader market. No longer.

Far from tracking the S&P 500 index of the top U.S. companies, the Dow Jones Industrial Average for the past two years has been left in the shade. It lagged behind the S&P by more than 10 percentage points in 2023 and 2024, a dismal performance matched in only two years since the S&P 500 was introduced in 1957. (Both, 1980 and 1998, were times of economic turmoil.)

Trump Says U.S. Would Take Over Gaza as Visit by Jordan's King Highlights Obstacles

WASHINGTON-The first Arab leader to come to the White House since President Trump called for taking control of Gaza and relocating its two million residents dodged a public confrontation but avoided endorsing Trump's improbable plan.

With Jordan's King Abdullah II next to him Tuesday in the Oval Office, Trump again vowed to "take" Gaza, prompting Abdullah to shift uncomfortably in his chair and to emphasize that Arab governments would counter with their own plan for postwar Gaza later this month.

What We Know About Trump's Reciprocal Tariffs

WASHINGTON-President Trump's team is working to impose as soon as this week reciprocal tariffs on nations that have slapped levies on U.S. exports, using executive action to bring to life a far-reaching proposal from his first term that never came to fruition.

Among Trump aides, Peter Navarro, the president's senior counselor for trade and manufacturing, is a leading advocate for the reciprocal-tariff idea, according to people with knowledge of the situation. Navarro pushed the idea during Trump's first term, advocating for lawmakers to sign on to a reciprocal-tariff bill put forth by then-Rep. Sean Duffy (R., Wis.), now Trump's secretary of transportation.

Write to gareth.mcpherson@wsj.com

TODAY IN CANADA

Earnings (4Q):

Barrick Gold

Brookfield Asset Management

Cenovus Energy

Kinross Gold

Precision Drilling

Restaurant Brands

Russel Metals

Sun Life Financial

Trilogy Metals

Waste Connections

West Fraser Timber

Economic Indicators (ET):

1330 Bank of Canada summary of monetary policy deliberations

Stocks to Watch:

Economic Investment Trust Announces Proposed 10-for-1 Share Split

NanoXplore 2Q Rev C$33.1M

Silvercorp Metals 3Q Rev $83.6M; 3Q EPS 12c; 3Q Adj EPS 10c

Toromont 4Q Basic EPS C$1.91; 4Q Rev C$1.31B; Raises Qtr Dividend to C$0.52; 4Q EPS C$1.90

Expected Major Events for Wednesday

06:00/JPN: Jan Preliminary Machine Tool Orders

09:00/ITA: Dec Industrial Production

12:00/US: 02/07 MBA Weekly Mortgage Applications Survey

13:30/US: Jan CPI

13:30/US: Jan Real Earnings

15:00/US: Jan Online Help Wanted Index

15:30/US: 02/07 EIA Weekly Petroleum Status Report

16:59/GER: Dec Balance of Payments

19:00/US: Jan Monthly Treasury Statement of Receipts and Outlays of the U.S. Government

23:50/JPN: Jan Corporate Goods Price Index

All times in GMT. Powered by Kantar Media and Dow Jones.

Expected Earnings for Wednesday

Anavex Life Sciences Corp (AVXL) is expected to report $-0.17 for 1Q.

BankFinancial Corp (BFIN) is expected to report $0.20 for 4Q.

Barrick Gold Corp (ABX.T,GOLD) is expected to report $0.63 for 4Q.

Biogen Inc (BIIB) is expected to report $2.59 for 4Q.

Blackstone Mortgage Trust Inc - A Share (BXMT) is expected to report $0.19 for 4Q.

Brookfield Asset Management Ltd (BAM.T) is expected to report $0.41 for 4Q.

CF Bankshares Inc (CFBK) is expected to report for 4Q.

CME Group Inc (CME) is expected to report $2.41 for 4Q.

CVS Health Corp (CVS) is expected to report $0.45 for 4Q.

Chefs' Warehouse Inc (CHEF) is expected to report $0.49 for 4Q.

Chimera Investment Corp (CIM) is expected to report for 4Q.

Conduent Inc (CNDT) is expected to report $-0.17 for 4Q.

Crown Crafts Inc (CRWS) is expected to report for 3Q.

Denny's Corp (DENN) is expected to report $0.14 for 4Q.

Diebold Nixdorf Inc (DBD) is expected to report $0.43 for 4Q.

Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp (FMCC) is expected to report $0.00 for 4Q.

Generac Holdings Inc (GNRC) is expected to report $2.19 for 4Q.

Great Lakes Dredge & Dock Corp (GLDD) is expected to report $0.26 for 4Q.

Healthcare Services Group Inc (HCSG) is expected to report $0.20 for 4Q.

Heroux-Devtek Inc (HRX.T) is expected to report $0.38 for 3Q.

Interpublic Group of Cos (IPG) is expected to report $1.16 for 4Q.

Kraft Heinz Co (KHC) is expected to report $0.78 for 4Q.

Lithia Motors Inc (LAD) is expected to report $7.35 for 4Q.

Martin Marietta Materials Inc (MLM) is expected to report $4.57 for 4Q.

Mastech Digital Inc (MHH) is expected to report $0.11 for 4Q.

Mr Cooper Group Inc (COOP) is expected to report $2.64 for 4Q.

Radware Ltd (RDWR) is expected to report $0.05 for 4Q.

Regis Corp (RGS) is expected to report for 2Q.

Restaurant Brands International Inc (QSR,QSR.T) is expected to report $1.07 for 4Q.

Ryder System Inc (R) is expected to report $3.20 for 4Q.

SiteOne Landscape Supply (SITE) is expected to report $-0.34 for 4Q.

Sonic Automotive Inc (SAH) is expected to report $1.46 for 4Q.

Sonnet BioTherapeutics Holdings Inc (SONN) is expected to report for 1Q.

Taylor Morrison Home Corp (TMHC) is expected to report $2.39 for 4Q.

Tenet Healthcare Corp (THC) is expected to report $2.86 for 4Q.

Urban Edge Properties (UE) is expected to report for 4Q.

Vishay Precision Group Inc (VPG) is expected to report $0.13 for 4Q.

Wabtec (WAB) is expected to report $1.52 for 4Q.

Waters Corp (WAT) is expected to report $3.84 for 4Q.

Yellow Pages Ltd (Y.T) is expected to report for 4Q.

Powered by Kantar Media and Dow Jones.

ANALYST RATINGS ACTIONS

Allient Raised to Outperform From Market Perform by Northland Capital Markets

Brixmor Property Group Raised to Outperform From In-Line by Evercore ISI Group

Columbus McKinnon Cut to Neutral From Buy by DA Davidson

Compass Raised to Buy From Neutral by UBS

Dynavax Cut to Sell From Neutral by Goldman Sachs

First Solar Raised to Outperform From Neutral by Mizuho

Fluence Energy Cut to Market Perform From Outperform by BMO Capital

IN8bio Raised to Buy From Hold by Jones Trading

Q32 Bio Cut to Market Perform From Outperform by BMO Capital

Q32 Bio Cut to Neutral From Overweight by Piper Sandler

REGENXBIO Cut to Neutral From Buy by Goldman Sachs

Steel Dynamics Raised to Overweight From Sector Weight by Keybanc

Third Harmonic Bio Cut to Market Perform From Outperform by Raymond James

TXNM Energy Raised to Outperform From In-Line by Evercore ISI Group

This article is a text version of a Wall Street Journal newsletter published earlier today.

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250212004764:0/)
