---
title: "Financial Services Roundup: Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-11 17:20:00"
summary: "The latest Market Talks covering Financial Services. Exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires at 4:20 ET, 12:20 ET and 16:50 ET.0912 GMT - The outcome BPER Banca's takeover offer will depend on how the market digests the all-share deal, Citi says in a research note. BPER is the latest Italian bank..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The latest Market Talks covering Financial Services. Exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires at 4:20 ET, 12:20 ET and 16:50 ET.

0912 GMT - The outcome BPER Banca's takeover offer will depend on how the market digests the all-share deal, Citi says in a research note. BPER is the latest Italian bank to join the recent surge in M&A activity in Italy. The lender's bid for Banca Popolare di Sondrio shouldn't be surprising based on their common product companies. The banks share a main shareholder, and there is a low acceptance threshold, so the deal could be successful, analyst Azzurra Guelfi writes. Still, "the market yet again has an important role and will likely look for a higher price while debating the benefits for minority shareholders." Meanwhile, questions remain on BPER's financial metrics, which led Citi to cut its stock rating to hold from buy. BPER shares have fallen 8% and Sondrio's have risen 3% since Thursday night's announcement. (elena.vardon@wsj.com)

0834 GMT - Mediobanca's strong profit and revenue beats, along with its outlook confirmation and improved 2026 targets, confirm its franchise potential, Citi says in a research note. The market should have a positive reaction to the Italian bank's results, which has recently rejected a takeover approach from peer Monte dei Paschi, analyst Azzurra Guelfi writes. "We would expect the market to continue to re-rate the stock," she says. The results could also push a higher premium for Monte dei Paschi's current offer, which Citi remains skeptical on, Guelfi notes. Shares open 2.1% higher at 16.90 euros. (elena.vardon@wsj.com)

0818 GMT - Mediobanca's new targets for 2026 imply earnings per share that are more than 4% higher than current consensus expectations, Jefferies says in a research note after the Italian bank's quarterly results. Revenue is now expected at 4 billion euros, against 3.8 billion euros previously, with over 1.4 billion euros in net profit. The guidance was outlined alongside its results for the fourth quarter of 2024, in which it posted a profit beat thanks to strong fees in its corporate and investment bank and backed its earnings per share growth guidance for 2025. Shares in Mediobanca, which recently rejected a takeover offer from peer Monte dei Paschi, rose 2% at market open. (elena.vardon@wsj.com)

0752 GMT - UniCredit's outlook for the years ahead and its better-than-expected results shouldn't disappoint the market, Keefe, Bruyette & Woods says in a research note after the Italian bank's fourth-quarter print. The earnings beat was solid due to better net interest income, while some items were weaker than estimates, analysts Hugo Cruz and Ben Maher write. "We think that is mainly "front loading" ahead of 2025," they say, referring to expenses taken during the end of last year. The net profit, net revenue and return on tangible equity guidance for 2025 surpasses current consensus estimates for the year, they add. (elena.vardon@wsj.com)

0323 GMT - DBS remains as a safe haven for investors to "hide out and tide through" current uncertainties and market volatility, say RHB Research analysts in a note. The Singapore bank's dividend and capital return policies offer investors clear visibility on the expected dividend yield ahead, they write. RHB raises its 2025 dividend per share forecast to S$3.06 from S$2.46 after factoring DBS' plans to introduce a capital return dividend of S$0.15 per quarter. RHB also raises the stock's target price to S$51.20 from S$44.70, while maintaining a buy rating. Shares are 1.0% lower at S$44.92.(amanda.lee@wsj.com)

0247 GMT - Maybank remains bullish on DBS after the Singapore bank's 2024 earnings beat street expectations. DBS's loan growth is expected to accelerate to 5.4% on year in FY2025 and its return on equity to average to 15.8% in 2025-2027 compared with the 12% in the past 10 years, according to Maybank's head of equity research Thilan Wickramasinghe. While net interest margin growth is unlikely to persist going in to 2025, the management claims that the credit pipeline is strong, helping offset NIM declines, Wickramasinghe notes in a report. Earnings could grow at 1% CAGR over 2025-2027, while dividends may expand at 7%, delivering more than 6.5% yields, he says. All of the factors mentioned justifies a higher valuation, he adds. Maybank raises the stock's target price to S$51.37 From S$46.91. Shares are last at S$44.93. (monica.gupta@wsj.com)

0142 GMT - Singapore Exchange stands to benefit from an uncertain macroeconomic outlook and potential rate cuts this year, UOB Kay Hian analysts say in a research report. These would improve trading velocity at SGX, sending its cash equities segment into revenue and profitability growth, the analysts say. Also, upcoming announcements from the Monetary Authority of Singapore's review group to revitalize Singapore's stock market would likely boost investor sentiment in 2025, they add. The brokerage lifts its FY 2025-2027 headline PATMI forecasts for SGX by 8%-9% to reflect higher margin assumptions. It raises the stock's target price to S$12.58 from S$11.83 with an unchanged hold rating. Shares are 0.4% higher at S$13.76. (ronnie.harui@wsj.com)

1819 GMT - Threats by President Trump to apply or raise tariffs on trading partners around the globe have traders jumping into gold futures — with the front-month contract closing up 1.6% to $2,914.30 a troy ounce. It's a new record for front-month gold, cracking the $2,900 barrier for the first time. Trump's latest threats, a 25% tariff on steel and aluminum sent to the U.S., looks to have an outsized impact on Canada and Mexico, with Canada selling the U.S. roughly 60% of the aluminum it imports. But markets remain unclear on if this is happening at all. "Recent events have taught us all not to take anything for granted and it's still possible that carve-outs or exemptions will be agreed," says Capital Economics in a note.SPDR Gold rises 1.6%. (kirk.maltais@wsj.com)

1354 GMT - Elliott Management hasn't made a hostile approach to the BP board and will seek a more "suggestivist" approach to get its ideas across, AJ Bell investment director Russ Mould writes. Elliott is reportedly seeking better shareholder value but it is hard to see how it can campaign for higher dividends or share buybacks, he writes. In 2024, BP delivered $5 billion in dividends and ran share buybacks worth $7.3 billion, he says. Elliott might want BP to refocus its strategy on oil-and-gas production, better allocate capex, or shift its listing to the U.S., Mould says. Shares trade up 7.3% at 464.65 pence. (adam.whittaker@wsj.com)

0939 GMT - Asia's strong economic momentum creates the potential for robust earnings growth for companies in key markets and sectors, including artificial intelligence-related technology in Taiwan and Korea, as well as banking in India, according to analysts at PineBridge Investments. Between Taiwan's and Korea's technology sectors, the analysts "tend to favor" Taiwanese companies, which they view as "more nimble and able to provide AI solutions to their customers", they say. The analysts add that they are "cautiously optimistic and see selective opportunities and continued competitive valuations in China." (tracy.qu@wsj.com)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250211001962:0/)
