---
title: "RELX Pretax Profit Rises on Strong Revenue Growth"
date: "2025-02-13 15:40:00"
summary: "(07:00 GMT) *RELX PLC FY EPS GBP1.036(07:00 GMT) *RELX PLC FY Oper Pft GBP2.86B(07:00 GMT) *RELX PLC FY Rev GBP9.43B(07:00 GMT) *RELX PLC FY Pretax Pft GBP2.56B(07:00 GMT) *RELX PLC FY Pre-items, Pretax Pft GBP2.9B(07:00 GMT) *RELX PLC FY Adj EPS GBP1.201(07:00 GMT) *RELX PLC FY Net Pft GBP1.93B(07:01 GMT)..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

**(07:00 GMT)** \*RELX PLC FY EPS GBP1.036  
**(07:00 GMT)** \*RELX PLC FY Oper Pft GBP2.86B  
**(07:00 GMT)** \*RELX PLC FY Rev GBP9.43B  
**(07:00 GMT)** \*RELX PLC FY Pretax Pft GBP2.56B  
**(07:00 GMT)** \*RELX PLC FY Pre-items, Pretax Pft GBP2.9B  
**(07:00 GMT)** \*RELX PLC FY Adj EPS GBP1.201  
**(07:00 GMT)** \*RELX PLC FY Net Pft GBP1.93B  
**(07:01 GMT)** \*Analysts Saw RELX 2024 Revenue at GBP9.55B  
**(07:01 GMT)** \*Analysts Saw RELX 2024 Pretax Profit at GBP2.72B  
**(07:01 GMT)** \*RELX Declares Dividend of 63p  
**(07:02 GMT)** \*RELX Sees 2025 Positive Momentum Across The Group  
**(07:03 GMT)** \*RELX Sees 2025 Strong Underlying Growth in Revenue and Adj. Operating Profit  
**(07:04 GMT)** \*RELX Sees 2025 Strong Growth in Adj. EPS on a Constant Currency Basis  
**(07:40 GMT)** RELX Pretax Profit Rises on Strong Revenue Growth

By Najat Kantouar

RELX reported higher pretax profit and revenue for 2024, driven by a continued shift in its business mix toward higher growth analytics and decision tools, but missed market expectations.

The information-and-analytics group posted Thursday a rise in pretax profit for the year to 2.56 billion pounds, equivalent to $3.19 billion, from 2.295 billion pounds a year earlier. This missed consensus of 2.72 billion pounds, based on the estimates of seven analysts taken from Factset.

Adjusted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization climbed to 3.72 billion pounds from 3.54 billion pounds.

Revenue rose to 9.43 billion pounds from 9.16 billion pounds, below consensus of 9.55 billion pounds, based on the estimates of 11 analysts taken from Factset. Electronic revenue--which represents 83% of the total--grew 7%, with the strong growth in face-to-face activity offsetting the print decline, RELX said.

The board declared a dividend of 63 pence a share, up 8% from a year earlier.

RELX said it expects continued positive momentum across the group for 2025. It also anticipates strong underlying growth in revenue and adjusted operating profit, as well as solid growth in adjusted earnings per share on a constant-currency basis.

Write to Najat Kantouar at najat.kantouar@wsj.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250213002513:0/)
