---
title: "News Highlights: Top Company News of the Day - Monday at 11 AM ET"
date: "2025-02-11 00:00:00"
summary: "Tesla Is Losing Ground Against Its Biggest Rival in ChinaBYD makes advances in AI-powered driving software while Musk's wait for approval grows.Intel's AI Chief to Leave Chip Maker in Wake of CEO ExitJustin Hotard will take the top job at European telecom-gear maker Nokia.McDonald's U.S. Sales Drop as Customers Spend..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

**Tesla Is Losing Ground Against Its Biggest Rival in China**

BYD makes advances in AI-powered driving software while Musk's wait for approval grows.

**Intel's AI Chief to Leave Chip Maker in Wake of CEO Exit**

Justin Hotard will take the top job at European telecom-gear maker Nokia.

**McDonald's U.S. Sales Drop as Customers Spend Less**

The fast-food chain had an uneven 2024, as it faced concerns about whether consumers were cutting visits because meal prices were too high.

**TD Bank to Sell Investment in Charles Schwab**

Toronto-Dominion Bank will exit its investment in Charles Schwab, the Canadian bank's first big move under new CEO Raymond Chun to shore up its business following a costly money-laundering scandal.

**Hyatt Agrees to Buy Playa Hotels for $2.6 Billion**

Hyatt Hotels has agreed to acquire Playa Hotels & Resorts for roughly $2.6 billion, including $900 million in debt.

**Elliott Takes Stake in Struggling Oil Giant BP**

The activist hedge fund is encouraging BP to consider more dramatic moves to restore the once venerable company's fortunes.

**Spirit AeroSystems to Declare Going Concern Amid Boeing Takeover**

Spirit AeroSystems Holdings' management cited substantial doubt about its ability to continue due to cash flow and liquidity issues.

**Behind the Oil Industry's Biggest Divorce: Chevron Versus California**

The energy giant sank the state's first successful oil well, kicking off a boom that powered California's economy for more than a century. Goodwill has since gone dry.

**Trump Pledges 25% Steel and Aluminum Tariffs. Cleveland-Cliffs, Other Stocks Jump.**

China's retaliatory tariffs against the U.S. came into effect early Monday but President Donald Trump paved the way for more levies.

**Rockwell Automation Stock Jumps on Earnings. New Orders Helped.**

Rockwell reported adjusted earnings per share of $1.83 from sales of $1.9 billion. Wall Street was looking for $1.58 and $1.9 billion, respectively, according to FactSet.

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250210007143:0/)
