---
title: "Tech, Media & Telecom Roundup: Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-12 05:50:00"
summary: "The latest Market Talks covering Technology, Media and Telecom. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires at 4:20 ET, 12:20 ET and 16:50 ET.1438 ET - The U.S.'s plan to impose new restrictions on exports of key technologies used in artificial intelligence to foreign countries is counterproductive, says Henna Virkkunen, the..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The latest Market Talks covering Technology, Media and Telecom. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires at 4:20 ET, 12:20 ET and 16:50 ET.

1438 ET - The U.S.'s plan to impose new restrictions on exports of key technologies used in artificial intelligence to foreign countries is counterproductive, says Henna Virkkunen, the European Commission's top tech regulator. "We will use all diplomatic means to request that the U.S. would treat the EU in a non-discriminatory way," she says, adding that lifting the restrictions would benefit both the EU and U.S. and calling the EU "the best customer of the U.S. for tech exports." The U.S. floated its AI chip export restrictions — which could lead to many EU member states having the number they can buy capped — last month in an effort to safeguard against national security risks. (edith.hancock@wsj.com)

1154 ET - Shopify says removing the de minimis trade exemption will harm small businesses, the bread and butter of its clientele. In a call to investors, executives said small and medium businesses are responsible for around two-thirds of all jobs created and said that merchants on the platform alone move billions of dollar across the border, and de minimis is crucial for them. Executives said that they try to help by displaying more information, such as what duties are being collected at checkout, or make it easier for shoppers to buy from their own countries. "We try to protect and empower every business we can but obviously especially we care about the underdogs," they said. (adriano.marchese@wsj.com)

0936 ET - Shopify says that its balance of expenses versus margin levels looks to find the right mix between profitability and growth of the business. CFO Jeff Hoffmeister says on the analyst call that the ecommerce platform aims to maintain a balance to see the right level of investment in 2025, similar to how it approached 2024, which included a strong marketing budget as well as sales pushes. "We want to maintain profitability, but invest in the future," because there are "too many compelling growth opportunities." (adriano.marchese@wsj.com)

0914 ET - Shopify is taking in new big players in the retail space while expanding services with existing customers. In his prepared statements, CEO Tobias Lutke says Shopify has signed big brands, such as Karl Lagerfeld, with 70 point of sale locations. FC Barcelona, another big coup in 4Q, with a 330 million fan base, is now using Shopify's POS system, not just online commerce services. Meanwhile, existing clients such as Everlane have taken on expanded services after being onboarded with basic services. Other notables, Lutke says, were shoe companies Aldo, Sperry with each deciding "to go all in with us." (adriano.marchese@wsj.com)

0912 ET — Shopify says AI is becoming a bigger part of its offering, and plans to pour more money into the service. In his prepared remarks, President Tobias Lutke says Shopify will "deepen investment in SideKick [Shopify's AI-enabled commerce assistant] and other AI capabilities." Lutke says the AI capabilities can serve its smaller merchants as well as its larger clients, which aim to support "streamlined operations and decision-making." In late January, China presented its low-cost AI model DeepSeek, which sent shivers across the rest of the tech space. But Shopify shares got a boost because it was seen as a potential beneficiary of AI models going open source, reducing costs. (adriano.marchese@wsj.com)

0640 ET - U.S. President Donald Trump's administration is troubled by foreign governments seeking to regulate U.S. technology giants, Vice President JD Vance says during the AI Action Summit in Paris. Some foreign governments are considering tightening the screws on U.S. tech companies with international footprints, Vance says. "America cannot and will not accept that. I think it is a terrible mistake not just for the United States of America but for your own countries," he adds. (edith.hancock@wsj.com)

0359 ET - The Indian equities selloff has opened up opportunities, HSBC strategists say. They see the software sector as showing improving growth prospects, adding that it stands to gain from a weak rupee. Lenders can benefit from less restrictive monetary policy, and they also like consumer names that can tap India's rural demand recovery or markets overseas. They favor electronics maker Dixon, which is supported by industry and policy tailwinds. Automaker Maruti Suzuki stands out for its export potential and rural market positioning, while insurance platform PB Fintech can grow at 2X-3X the industry rate thanks to competitive advantages. HSBC also likes Godrej Properties, whose large land bank lets it grow in tough times, and LTIMindtree, which is well-placed for rising IT services demand. HSBC has buy calls on all five. (fabiana.negrinochoa@wsj.com)

0308 ET - Ams-Osram's guidance for the first quarter points to a weaker performance, as previously flagged, but it isn't worse than feared, Vontobel's Mark Diethelm says in a research note. The European electronics company expects first-quarter revenue of between 750 million and 850 million euros, with an adjusted Ebitda margin of 14.5% to 17.5%. Ams-Osram will continue to face challenges in the first half of 2025 due to weak demand and continued inventory adjustments, the analyst says. However, it said it expects a meaningfully stronger second half of the year. "Overall, the message is consistent and we do not expect material consensus estimate adjustments," the analyst says. Shares jump 14%. (adria.calatayud@wsj.com)

0303 ET - Bitcoin rises following a rally in U.S. tech stocks overnight, XTB's Kathleen Brooks says in a note. Tech stocks are recovering from a recent selloff led by concerns that Chinese startup DeepSeek's new artificial intelligence could threaten America's dominance in the sector. "Big money is betting that tech will resume its leadership of the U.S. stock market," Brooks says. This suggests stocks could remain resilient to President Trump's tariff threats and his stance on trade policy won't have a negative effect on inflation or global growth. Bitcoin's gains is another sign it is moving closely with U.S. tech stocks. Bitcoin rises 0.9% to $98,303, according to LSEG. (renae.dyer@wsj.com)

0153 ET - The buzz around AI firm DeepSeek is shining the spotlight on companies tied to tech giant ByteDance, Daiwa analysts write in a note. DeepSeek's arrival has fueled sentiment around AI, spilling over into companies that do business with ByteDance, which has its own AI chatbot. That's brought some of the company's major listed suppliers like Accelink Technologies, a maker of optical components and photo-electronic devices, onto investors' radar, the analysts say. GigaDevice Semiconductor, a memory chip provider, is reaping the benefits, as are ByteDance suppliers Shenzhen Woer and Broadex, which respectively specialize in power cables & shrinkable tubes, and electronic components, they add. (jiahui.huang@wsj.com; @ivy\_jiahuihuang)

2332 ET - Swiggy's long-term growth outlook appears robust, Citi research analyst Vijit Jain says in a note. The Indian startup's business execution across food delivery and quick commerce has improved this fiscal year, with innovation and adoption strategies that are critical given the fierce competition in the sectors it operates in, Jain says. While Swiggy's valuation reflects competition and profitability concerns, the analyst views these headwinds as short-term. Swiggy could become profitable in 2026, and there is upside from sustained discipline in its business execution, Jain adds. Citi initiates coverage of the stock with a buy rating and INR480 target price. Shares are 1.5% lower at INR356.60. (kimberley.kao@wsj.com)

1825 ET - SGH's shares rise 9% soon after Australia's market opens, with Jefferies calling out profit margins at building materials unit Boral as the highlight of its 1H result. SGH reported a 14.3% Ebit margin for Boral in 1H, well above consensus forecasts of 11.7%. That drove a 9% beat to market hopes for Boral's Ebit. "Margin delivery is impressive given weaker volumes and likely operating deleverage," analyst Kai Erman says. SGH reaffirmed expectations for high single-digit Ebit growth in FY 2025, which Jefferies considers to be conservative. Jefferies retains a hold call on SGH. (david.winning@wsj.com; @dwinningWSJ)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250211011775:0/)
