---
title: "Vontier Files 8K - Entry Into Definitive Agreement >VNT"
date: "2025-02-14 02:00:00"
summary: "Vontier Corp. (VNT) filed a Form 8K - Entry Into a Definitive Agreement - with the U.S Securities and Exchange Commission on February 13, 2025.On February 12, 2025, Vontier Corporation, a Delaware corporation (\"Vontier\"), and certain of its subsidiaries entered into (1) an amendment (the \"Term Loan Amendment\") to that..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Vontier Corp. (VNT) filed a Form 8K - Entry Into a Definitive Agreement - with the U.S Securities and Exchange Commission on February 13, 2025.

On February 12, 2025, Vontier Corporation, a Delaware corporation ("Vontier"), and certain of its subsidiaries entered into (1) an amendment (the "Term Loan Amendment") to that certain Term Loan Agreement, dated as of October 28, 2022 (the "Existing Term Loan Agreement"), by and among Vontier, the lenders party thereto and Bank of America, N.A., as Agent for a syndicate of lenders, and (2) a second amendment and restatement (the "Second A&R Credit Agreement") of that certain Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, dated as of April 28, 2021 (the "Existing Credit Agreement" and, together with the Existing Term Loan Agreement, the "Existing Credit Agreements"), by and among Vontier, certain of its subsidiaries, the lenders party thereto and Bank of America, N.A., as L/C Issuer and Swing Line Lender and Agent for a syndicate of lenders.

Term Loan Facility

The Term Loan Amendment amends the Existing Term Loan Agreement to consist of a three-year, $500 million senior unsecured term loan facility (the "Term Loan Facility"). Loans under the Term Loan Facility bear interest, at Vontier's option, at the following variable per annum rates: (A) Term SOFR (as defined in the Term Loan Amendment) for the chosen interest period plus a margin of between 0.875% and 1.500%, depending on Vontier's long-term debt credit rating; and (B) Base Rate (as defined in the Term Loan Amendment) plus a margin of between 0% and 0.500%, depending on Vontier's long-term debt credit rating. The Term Loan Amendment extends the maturity date for the Term Loan Facility to February 12, 2028.

Revolving Credit Facility

The Second A&R Credit Agreement consists of a five-year, $750 million senior unsecured, multi-currency revolving credit facility, including a $25 million sublimit for swingline loans and a $75 million sublimit for the issuance of letters of credit (the "Revolving Credit Facility"). Loans under the Revolving Credit Facility bear interest, at Vontier's option, at the following variable per annum rates: (A) Term SOFR (as defined in the Second A&R Credit Agreement) for the chosen interest period plus a margin of between 1.015% and 1.575%, depending on Vontier's long-term debt credit rating; and (B) Base Rate (as defined in the Term Loan Amendment) plus a margin of between 0.015% and 0.575%, depending on Vontier's long-term debt credit rating. The Second A&R Credit Agreement extends the maturity date for the Revolving Credit Facility to February 12, 2030.

Except as disclosed in this Current Report on Form 8-K, all other material provisions of the Existing Credit Agreements remain unchanged.

The above descriptions of the Term Loan Amendment and the Second A&R Credit Agreement are qualified in their entirety by reference to the Term Loan Amendment and the Second A&R Credit Agreement, which are filed as Exhibit 10.1 and Exhibit 10.2 hereto, respectively, and incorporated herein by reference.

The full text of this SEC filing can be retrieved at: https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1786842/000119312525025867/d867038d8k.htm

Any exhibits and associated documents for this SEC filing can be retrieved at: https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1786842/000119312525025867/0001193125-25-025867-index.htm

Public companies must file a Form 8-K, or current report, with the SEC generally within four days of any event that could materially affect a company's financial position or the value of its shares.

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250213012914:0/)
