---
title: "What the CFPB Cutbacks Mean for Junk Fees, Medical Debt — Barrons.com"
date: "2025-02-11 02:11:00"
summary: "By Joe LightCourts might stop President Donald Trump from completely eliminating the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. But many high-profile actions the agency took to rein in so-called junk fees and eliminate medical debt from credit reports are likely dead.Over the weekend, Office of Management and Budget Director Russell Vought, who..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Joe Light

Courts might stop President Donald Trump from completely eliminating the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. But many high-profile actions the agency took to rein in so-called junk fees and eliminate medical debt from credit reports are likely dead.

Over the weekend, Office of Management and Budget Director Russell Vought, who is also the acting CFPB director, said the agency wouldn't take its next allocation of funding from the Federal Reserve. He also ordered that the CFPB building close temporarily and told its staff to essentially stop all its work in areas including enforcement and rule making.

The effect of the moves is essentially to eliminate the agency as an effective force, accomplishing through executive fiat something that Republicans have never had enough support in Congress to achieve. The fact that the CFPP was created by law as an entity intended to serve certain functions will likely mean courts will stop Trump from eliminating the agency altogether.

The union representing CFPB employees on Sunday filed two lawsuits, One alleges that Vought's directive to stop many activities was unlawful, while the other seeks to restrict access to employee information by Elon Musk's so-called Department of Government Efficiency.

But even if a court stops his most extreme measures, Vought could still severely cut back the agency's staff and activities legally. That means recent actions by the Biden administration to crack down on bank junk fees or to strike medical debt from credit reports are likely on their deathbed.

"The Trump administration can't 'delete the CFPB,' as Elon Musk has suggested, but it absolutely has the administrative latitude to hollow out the agency," wrote BTIG director of policy research Isaac Boltansky in a research note.

In his memo suspending the CFPB's work, Vought said the agency should also suspend the effective dates of rules that haven't yet gone into effect. That will capture many initiatives pushed out the door by former CFPB Director Rohit Chopra.

Among them are some rules on junk fees. A rule finalized in December would have forced big banks and credit unions to limit overdraft fees to $5 or their actual costs, or to see their overdraft charges subject to other regulations governing consumer loans. The CFPB expected that rule to save consumers $5 billion a year, but it wasn't slated to go into effect until October.

The CFPB last year also finalized a rule that would have limited large credit card issuers' late fees to $8, which the agency said would have saved Americans $10 billion annually. Associations representing the card industry sued to stop that rule, and a federal judge in Texas halted its implementation during the litigation. With Trump and Vought at the reins, it seems unlikely that the CFPB will appeal that ruling or fight the case.

Finally, under Chopra, the CFPB in January finalized a rule that would remove medical debt from credit reports used by lenders to approve loans, arguing that the rule would "increase privacy protections and prevent debt collectors from using the credit reporting system to coerce people to pay bills they don't owe." The rule would have taken effect in March.

A trade group for debt collectors sued, and last week another federal judge delayed that rule's implementation until June to give Trump officials time to decide what they want to do.

"The CFPB now appears poised to roll over and play dead in pending lawsuits by big banks and credit bureaus, letting them overturn new rules," said Lauren Saunders, associate director of the National Consumer Law Center, in a statement citing the rules on overdraft fees and medical debt.

The CFPB didn't immediately respond to a request for comment.

"The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau...has long functioned as another woke, weaponized arm of the bureaucracy that leverages its power against certain industries and individuals disfavored by so-called 'elites,'" the White House said in a press release Monday afternoon, citing the overdraft and medical debt rules among other issues.

Write to Joe Light at joe.light@barrons.com

This content was created by Barron's, which is operated by Dow Jones & Co. Barron's is published independently from Dow Jones Newswires and The Wall Street Journal.

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250210008485:0/)
