---
title: "Assured Guaranty Ltd. to Report Full Year and Fourth Quarter 2024 Financial Results on February 27, 2025"
date: "2025-02-13 04:37:00"
summary: "Assured Guaranty Ltd. to Report Full Year and Fourth Quarter 2024 Financial Results on February 27, 2025HAMILTON, Bermuda--(BUSINESS WIRE)--February 12, 2025--Assured Guaranty Ltd. (the Company) today announced that it will issue its financial results press release for the full year and fourth quarter ended December 31, 2024 after 4:00 p.m...."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Assured Guaranty Ltd. to Report Full Year and Fourth Quarter 2024 Financial Results on February 27, 2025

HAMILTON, Bermuda--(BUSINESS WIRE)--February 12, 2025--

Assured Guaranty Ltd. (the Company) today announced that it will issue its financial results press release for the full year and fourth quarter ended December 31, 2024 after 4:00 p.m. Eastern Time (5:00 p.m. Atlantic Time) on Thursday, February 27, 2025. The press release and Assured Guaranty Ltd.'s Financial Supplement for December 31, 2024 will be available in the Investor Information section of the Company's website located at AssuredGuaranty.com.

The Company will host a conference call for investors at 8:00 a.m. Eastern Time (9:00 a.m. Atlantic Time) on Friday, February 28, 2025. The conference call will be available via live webcast in the Investor Information section of the Company's website at AssuredGuaranty.com or by dialing 1-833-470-1428 (in the U.S.) or 1-404-975-4839 (International); the access code is 680063.

A replay of the conference call will be available approximately three hours after the call ends. The webcast replay will be available for 90 days in the Investor Information section of the Company's website at AssuredGuaranty.com and the telephone replay will be available for 30 days by dialing 1-866-813-9403 (in the U.S.) or 1-929-458-6194 (International); the access code is 810694.

About Assured Guaranty Ltd.

Assured Guaranty Ltd. is a publicly traded, Bermuda-based holding company. Through its subsidiaries, Assured Guaranty provides credit enhancement products to the U.S. and non-U.S. public finance, infrastructure and structured finance markets. Assured Guaranty also participates in the asset management business through its ownership interest in Sound Point Capital Management, LP. More information on Assured Guaranty can be found at: AssuredGuaranty.com.

View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20250212364926/en/

CONTACT: Robert Tucker, 212-339-0861

Senior Managing Director, Investor Relations and Corporate Communications

rtucker@agltd.com

Media:

Ashweeta Durani, 212-408-6042

Director, Corporate Communications

adurani@agltd.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250212011798:0/)
