---
title: "RELX Pretax Profit Rises on Strong Revenue Growth"
date: "2025-02-13 15:55:00"
summary: "By Najat KantouarRELX reported higher pretax profit and revenue for 2024, driven by a continued shift in its business mix toward higher growth analytics and decision tools, but missed market expectations.The information-and-analytics group posted Thursday a rise in pretax profit for the year to 2.56 billion pounds, equivalent to $3.19..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Najat Kantouar

RELX reported higher pretax profit and revenue for 2024, driven by a continued shift in its business mix toward higher growth analytics and decision tools, but missed market expectations.

The information-and-analytics group posted Thursday a rise in pretax profit for the year to 2.56 billion pounds, equivalent to $3.19 billion, from 2.295 billion pounds a year earlier. This missed consensus of 2.72 billion pounds, based on the estimates of seven analysts taken from Factset.

Adjusted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization climbed to 3.72 billion pounds from 3.54 billion pounds.

Revenue rose to 9.43 billion pounds from 9.16 billion pounds, below consensus of 9.55 billion pounds, based on the estimates of 11 analysts taken from Factset. Electronic revenue--which represents 83% of the total--grew 7%, with the strong growth in face-to-face activity offsetting the print decline, RELX said.

The board declared a dividend of 63 pence a share, up 8% from a year earlier.

RELX said it expects continued positive momentum across the group for 2025. It also anticipates strong underlying growth in revenue and adjusted operating profit, as well as solid growth in adjusted earnings per share on a constant-currency basis.

Write to Najat Kantouar at najat.kantouar@wsj.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250213003806:0-relx-pretax-profit-rises-on-strong-revenue-growth/)
