---
title: "Baidu in Talks to Operate Robotaxis in U.A.E."
date: "2025-02-12 21:20:00"
summary: "Chinese internet company Baidu is in talks with authorities in the United Arab Emirates to bring its driverless ride-hailing service to the Middle Eastern country, people familiar with the matter said.Tests of the Beijing-based company's Apollo Go robotaxis in Dubai could start as early as the first half of this..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Chinese internet company Baidu is in talks with authorities in the United Arab Emirates to bring its driverless ride-hailing service to the Middle Eastern country, people familiar with the matter said.

Tests of the Beijing-based company's Apollo Go robotaxis in Dubai could start as early as the first half of this year, the people said.

The progress came as Chief Executive Robin Li met with senior U.A.E. officials this week in Dubai and discussed autonomous-driving and artificial-intelligence technologies.

Baidu received a license for testing autonomous vehicles in Hong Kong late last year. It is beefing up business-development teams in the Middle East, in cities such as Dubai, Abu Dhabi and Riyadh, as well as in Southeast Asia, according to recruitment posts on job boards.

Chinese autonomous-driving companies are seeking to extend their competitive advantage outside China by targeting markets including the Middle East, Singapore and Japan at a time when Chinese technology is facing heightened scrutiny from Washington. Analysts say competition with American rivals has started intensifying in those markets.

Waymo, owned by Google parent Alphabet, said in December that it planned to begin its first overseas tests in Tokyo early this year.

Write to Singapore Editors at singaporeeditors@dowjones.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250212007751:0-baidu-in-talks-to-operate-robotaxis-in-u-a-e/)
