---
title: "USDA Cuts Outlook for Argentinian Crops, Leaves U.S. Output Mostly Unchanged - Update"
date: "2025-02-12 02:34:00"
summary: "By Kirk MaltaisProduction of corn and soybeans out of Argentina are forecast to be lower as weather there batters its newly planted crops, the U.S. Department of Agriculture said.In its latest World Agricultural Supply and Demand Estimates report published Tuesday, the USDA changed its outlook for South American corn and..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Kirk Maltais

Production of corn and soybeans out of Argentina are forecast to be lower as weather there batters its newly planted crops, the U.S. Department of Agriculture said.

In its latest World Agricultural Supply and Demand Estimates report published Tuesday, the USDA changed its outlook for South American corn and soybean crops--which grain traders have been watching closely in recent months to determine the competition U.S. exports face on the world market.

Argentina's projected corn crop was cut by 1 million metric tons to 50 million tons in 2025, while the outlook for its soybean crop was reduced by 3 million tons to 49 million tons.

Brazil's corn-crop projection was also cut by 1 million tons to 126 million metric tons in 2025, but the estimate for its soybean crop was left unchanged at 169 million tons. For both Brazil and Argentina, excessive rain in some areas, combined with drought in others, have impacted the size and health of their row crops.

Movements in the USDA's forecasts for U.S. corn and soybeans in South America are having a minor effect on price movement, says Brian Hoops of Midwest Market Solutions. "South American production is closely looked at and while Argentine and Brazil production is larger than last year, so far supply is down from last month, so a minor supportive feature."

For U.S. crops, the USDA left its outlook for corn and soybeans unchanged. The corn-production estimate stayed at 14.87 billion bushels, while the soybeans projection remained at 4.37 billion bushels. Ending stocks outlooks for both were also unchanged.

The estimate for U.S. wheat production was left unchanged at 1.97 billion bushels, while ending stocks were forecast 4 million bushels lower at 794 million bushels.

Following the report's release, grain futures trading on the Chicago Board of Trade trimmed earlier gains. Most-active corn futures are now up by 0.1%, soybeans are up 0.1%, and wheat is up 0.8%.

Write to Kirk Maltais at kirk.maltais@wsj.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250211008688:0/)
