---
title: "Home Healthcare Inflation Is Stubbornly High — WSJ"
date: "2025-02-13 01:30:00"
summary: "By Anne TergesenThe cost of paid in-home care has soared in recent years and remains stubbornly high.The Labor Department on Wednesday reported that prices for in-home care rose 8.1% in January from a year earlier, even as consumer prices overall rose 3%.Inflation in these services has been high since 2023,..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Anne Tergesen

The cost of paid in-home care has soared in recent years and remains stubbornly high.

The Labor Department on Wednesday reported that prices for in-home care rose 8.1% in January from a year earlier, even as consumer prices overall rose 3%.

Inflation in these services has been high since 2023, hitting older adults who need care with tasks including bathing, dressing and eating. Year-over-year price increases for in-home care peaked at 14.2% in March of last year.

The 2023 national median cost of a home health aide, hired through an agency, stood at $33 an hour, up from $20 an hour in 2015, according to Genworth, a long-term-care insurance company.

More than 11,000 people in the U.S. are turning 65 every day and the vast majority want to live as long as possible in their current home.

The demand stirred by an aging population is colliding with shortages of home health aides.

About one-fourth of those 65 and older will eventually require significant support and services for more than three years, according to the Center for Retirement Research at Boston College.

Many can't afford that. About one-third of retirees don't have resources to afford even a year of minimal care, according to the Boston College center. About 10% of adults 65 and older have long-term-care insurance, according to Genworth, which can cover some in-home care costs, depending on the policy.

Read more here:

This item is part of a Wall Street Journal live coverage event. The full stream can be found by searching P/WSJL (WSJ Live Coverage).

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250212010877:0/)
