---
title: "News Highlights: Top Company News of the Day - Wednesday at 5 PM ET"
date: "2025-02-13 06:15:00"
summary: "Cisco's Earnings Beat Expectations. Its Guidance Was Upbeat.The networking company is raising its dividend by 1 cent to 41 cents per share.Robinhood Stock Jumps As Earnings Blow Past ForecastsRobinhood benefited from a surge in investor activity as customers piled into stocks and cryptocurrencies.Reddit turns second quarterly profit since IPO as..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

**Cisco's Earnings Beat Expectations. Its Guidance Was Upbeat.**

The networking company is raising its dividend by 1 cent to 41 cents per share.

**Robinhood Stock Jumps As Earnings Blow Past Forecasts**

Robinhood benefited from a surge in investor activity as customers piled into stocks and cryptocurrencies.

**Reddit turns second quarterly profit since IPO as daily active unique users top 100 million for the first time**

The San Francisco-based company's shares fell in extended trading Wednesday, despite Reddit's better-than-expected fourth-quarter earnings and revenue.

**Kroger Names PepsiCo Veteran as Chief Financial Officer**

David Kennerley, CFO of PepsiCo Europe, will become the supermarket operator's finance chief in early April.

**FCC set to investigate media giant Comcast over diversity commitments and says it could shut down DEI programs elsewhere**

Comcast says it 'will be cooperating with the FCC to answer their questions'

**Chevron to Lay Off Up to 20% of Workers. Why the Oil Industry Is Slimming Down.**

The company's move is "positioning us to accelerate" cash-generation, its vice chairman tells Barron's.

**Zillow's Rentals Business Buoys Prospects, Even as Outlook Hits Shares**

Zillow's outlook has taken a hit from a persistently challenging housing market, but its longer-term prospects remain promising, in part thanks to an expanding rentals business, analysts say.

**Micron Stock Falls as News on Outlook Disappoints**

The maker of computer memory said industry conditions are expected to hurt gross margins in the third quarter.

**Ray-Ban Maker EssilorLuxottica Logs Higher Sales Amid North America, China Growth**

In North America, fourth-quarter revenue rose 7.8%, while revenue in China rose about 50%, the company said.

**CVS Health Stock Jumps on Earnings Beat and Solid Guidance. 'Phew!' Says One Analyst.**

CVS Health rises after fourth-quarter adjusted earnings easily top analysts' estimates.

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250212015585:0-news-highlights-top-company-news-of-the-day-wednesday-at-5-pm-et/)
