---
title: "Global Forex and Fixed Income Roundup: Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-13 11:07:00"
summary: "The latest Market Talks covering FX and Fixed Income. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.0307 GMT - Expectations for New Zealand inflation over the coming year have picked up slightly, rising to 2.15% from 2.05% previously, which follows a sharp fall in the New Zealand dollar in..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The latest Market Talks covering FX and Fixed Income. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.

0307 GMT - Expectations for New Zealand inflation over the coming year have picked up slightly, rising to 2.15% from 2.05% previously, which follows a sharp fall in the New Zealand dollar in recent weeks that is set to push imported inflation higher for a period over the coming year, says Satish Ranchhod, senior economist at Westpac. Of more concern for the RBNZ are expectations over longer horizons, with the closely watched measure of expected inflation in two years' time edging down to 2.06% from 2.12% in the prior quarter, he adds. The survey will leave the RBNZ feeling comfortable that pricing behavior is well aligned with its medium-term inflation target, he adds. (james.glynn@wsj.com; @JamesGlynnWSJ)

0213 GMT - The Trump administration's tariffs could weaken the Korean won against the U.S. dollar in the near term, with USD/KRW likely to stay at around 1,470.00 on a three-month horizon, Citigroup analysts Jin-Wook Kim and Jiuk Choi write in a note. The pair is flat at 1,453.45 early Thursday in Seoul onshore trading. The Citi analysts expect the won to be pressured by escalating risk-off sentiment, weakening export growth and rising USD demand for Korean companies to build supply chains in the U.S. Citi expects the Bank of Korea to cut the policy rate in February unless the pair surges above the 1,500.00 level. (kwanwoo.jun@wsj.com)

0129 GMT - A Federal Reserve rate cut in March no longer looks likely to Nomura analysts, who now see a hold through 2025. While U.S. economic activity should stay robust near term, it'll likely slow on the impact of the Trump administration's combative trade policy, David Seif and others write. They now expect 10% tariffs on many countries and an increase on those against China. Tariffs will weigh on U.S. consumer spending, while policy uncertainty poses a headwind for business investment, they say. Less aggressive Fed easing due to tariff-fueled inflation could curb the housing market recovery. They think Fed easing may resume in 2Q 2026 once tariff-induced inflation passes. Risks to their view include more a moderate trade policy or the Fed looking past tariff-driven inflation. (fabiana.negrinochoa@wsj.com)

0057 GMT - The Bank of Thailand is likely to tread cautiously with rate cuts as uncertainty around Trump's policies stays high, Nomura analysts say. They think BOT will pause in February before resuming cutting in April and August once there is more clarity on the impact of trade frictions. That said, the central bank has flagged downside risks to its growth forecasts, citing limited impact from fiscal handouts, which Nomura's Charnon Boonnuch and Euben Paracuelles think raises the risk of an earlier cut. They maintain below-consensus GDP growth forecasts of 2.5% in 2024 and 2.6% in 2025, flagging weaker global growth and trade protectionism as key downside risks. (fabiana.negrinochoa@wsj.com)

0049 GMT - U.S. policy overhang is likely to weigh on the Thai baht, BMI, a unit of Fitch Solutions, says in a research report. Market participants have begun to price in fewer Fed rate cuts after Trump's victory in the presidential election as his protectionist policies will most certainly stoke inflationary pressures in the U.S., BMI says. The Fed has signaled the likelihood of fewer rate cuts compared with the start of the central bank's easing cycle last year, BMI says. Also, imminent rate cuts by the BOT will likely weigh on the baht in the short term. BMI forecasts that the baht will weaken to 34.50 per dollar by end-2025. USD/THB is 0.1% lower at 33.99. (ronnie.harui@wsj.com)

0031 GMT - Asian currencies consolidate against the dollar in the morning session as traders digest mixed developments. The U.S. January CPI was stronger than expected, CBA's Kristina Clifton says, noting the USD Index has traded in a wide range. However, there's also been news that President Trump and Russian President Putin have agreed to begin negotiating an end to the war in Ukraine, the senior economist and currency strategist adds. USD/KRW edges 0.1% higher to 1,453.60; USD/SGD is 0.1% lower at 1.3525; AUD/USD is little changed at 0.6282. (ronnie.harui@wsj.com)

0014 GMT - JGBs fall in the morning Tokyo session, tracking overnight price declines in U.S. Treasurys. While the Bank of Japan is slated to buy a wide range of JGBs today, the operation's support to the Japanese government bond market could be limited by the sharp rise in U.S. long-dated yields, strategists at Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities say. The 5-year JGB yield rises 2bps to 1.020%, its highest intraday level since October 2010; the 10-year yield rises 3bps to 1.370%, the highest intraday level since April 2010. (ronnie.harui@wsj.com)

0003 GMT - The USD index is currently trading just below 108 points, roughly where it was just over 24 hours ago. It initially rose sharply because the U.S. CPI for January was stronger than expected on both the headline and core measures. However, USD unwound its increase later in the session helped by news that U.S. President Trump and Russian President Putin have agreed to start negotiating an end to the war in Ukraine, says Kristina Clifton, economist at CBA. Markets have pushed out the timing of the next FOMC interest-rate cut even further to December, compared to September before the CPI release, she notes. (james.glynn@wsj.com; @JamesGlynnWSJ)

2355 GMT - The Aussie dollar-U.S. dollar pair is near 0.6280, after trading in a wide 70 point range in the U.S. trading session. The 0.6290 level is proving to be firm Fibonacci-related technical resistance for AUD/USD, says Krisitina Clifton, currency strategist at CBA. AUD/USD will likely follow the USD trend until the Reserve Bank of Australia's interest rate announcement on Tuesday, she adds. A 25 basis point cash rate cut, if delivered, will be the first since the Covid pandemic. Clifton says that if the RBA does not cut next week it would be a shock to the currency market and AUD/USD could lift by around 1 U.S. cent. (james.glynn@wsj.com ; @JamesGlynnWSJ)

2343 GMT - Japanese stocks may rise as a weaker yen raises hopes for earnings growth. Nikkei futures are up 0.6% at 39210 on the SGX. USD/JPY is at 154.41, up from 153.64 as of Wednesday's Tokyo stock market close. Investors are focusing on earnings as well as U.S. trade policies. Daiwa House Industry and Sumitomo Forestry are scheduled to announce their results later in the day. The Nikkei Stock Average rose 0.4% to 38963.70 on Wednesday. (kosaku.narioka@wsj.com)

2324 GMT - It's highly likely that the Reserve Bank of New Zealand will cut the official cash rate by 50 basis points to 3.75% at its policy meeting next week but project a slower pace of easing after February, says Westpac economist Kelly Eckhold. Still, there's also an outside chance the RBNZ cuts the OCR by more to try and bring the OCR to neutral more quickly, he says. There's potential for the RBNZ to outline a dovish scenario that signals its intention to move the OCR to neutral more quickly by signalling a 3% OCR by mid-2025. This would signal a high chance of a further 50 basis point cut at the April review, Eckhold says. (james.glynn@wsj.com; @JamesGlynnWSJ)

2219 GMT - Consumer inflation came in hotter than expected, but Goldman Sachs economists think the data still point to a decline in the 12-month readings of the Fed's preferred inflation gauge, the personal consumption expenditures price index. Based on the CPI, Goldman thinks that headline PCE inflation was up 0.38% in January, with core PCE rising 0.45% month over month. That is still an elevated rate but would bring the 12-month increase in headline PCE down to 2.5%, from 2.6% in December, and the 12-month core PCE inflation rate down to 2.6%, from 2.8% in December, Goldman says. Analysts will be able to estimate PCE inflation with more certainty after January PPI figures land Thursday morning. PCE inflation data are due Feb. 28. (matt.grossman@wsj.com, @mattgrossman)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250212017185:0/)
