---
title: "DBS Shares Hit New High on Record Annual Profit"
date: "2025-02-10 13:14:00"
summary: "By Kimberley KaoShares of DBS Group hit a new high after Singapore's largest bank posted record earnings on the back of higher net interest income and fees from its wealth management business, as Chief Executive Piyush Gupta signs off his final earnings report after 15 years at the helm.The lender,..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Kimberley Kao

Shares of DBS Group hit a new high after Singapore's largest bank posted record earnings on the back of higher net interest income and fees from its wealth management business, as Chief Executive Piyush Gupta signs off his final earnings report after 15 years at the helm.

The lender, one of Southeast Asia's biggest by assets, said ahead of the market's open that its full-year net profit rose 11% to S$11.41 billion, higher than the S$11.28 billion median estimate from a FactSet survey of analysts.

DBS also said it was stepping up its capital distribution to its shareholders and planned to introduce a capital return dividend of 15 Singapore cents per quarter to be paid out over the current financial year.

Shares of DBS jumped 4.1% to a new intraday high of S$46.50 in early trading, taking DBS's market capitalization above S$130 billion. Shares were 2.3% higher around midday.

Citi Research and Jefferies analysts said the rise in DBS shares was expected, after the solid results.

The bank's capital return beat expectations, and DBS upgraded its outlook for net interest income this year, guiding a slight rise from 2024 levels despite expectations for two U.S. Federal Reserve rate cuts, Citi's Yong Hong Tan highlighted in a note.

Jefferies analysts described the earnings as "another rabbit out of the hat."

"DBS demonstrated strong underlying business performance... even in areas that were slightly softer," analysts Sam Wong and Shujin Chen said in a note.

The introduction of a capital return dividend on top of the S$3 billion share buyback program announced last quarter reflects the bank's commitment to shareholder return while pursuing long-term growth, they added.

However, it remains unclear when the planned share buybacks will be completed, making it difficult to ascertain if the total shareholder return will exceed forecasts, Morningstar senior equity analyst Michael Makdad said in a note.

Gupta, who has been Chief Executive Officer and Director of DBS Group since 2009, is due to retire in March, and will be succeeded by his deputy, Tan Su Shan.

Looking ahead, Tan said in a media briefing that while more market volatility is expected during President Trump's second term, the business needs to be guided by longer-term trends. China also appears to be better prepared for a second Trump administration, Tan said.

"Whilst there will be reactions around some of the tariffs... especially in China and Southeast Asia, the countries here are looking to be more resilient internally and to look at more intra-regional trade," Tan said.

Tan added that higher inflation is expected, and it could keep interest rates higher for longer. "So we have to prepare for that," Tan said.

Gupta noted that Trump's first presidency did not impact global trade materially.

"While there may be tariffs in the U.S. per se, I do see that there is enough tailwind around connectivity and interactivity around the other countries in the world. So that gives us an opportunity," Gupta said.

Write to Kimberley Kao at kimberley.kao@wsj.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250210000094:0-dbs-shares-hit-new-high-on-record-annual-profit/)
