---
title: "Schwab Raising Fees for Advisor Referral Program — Barrons.com"
date: "2025-02-13 02:51:00"
summary: "By Kenneth CorbinCharles Schwab is raising the fees it charges advisors to participate in its client-referral program. Effective later this year, participation in the Schwab Advisor Network will cost an additional 5% for all participants.Schwab had said late last year that it was considering increasing fees for the program.\"As we..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Kenneth Corbin

Charles Schwab is raising the fees it charges advisors to participate in its client-referral program. Effective later this year, participation in the Schwab Advisor Network will cost an additional 5% for all participants.

Schwab had said late last year that it was considering increasing fees for the program.

"As we have shared with advisors in the Schwab Advisor Network program, after 18 years with no changes to the advisor participation fees, there will be an increase of 5% over the current fee for each asset tier," a Schwab spokeswoman says. She declined to provide a more precise time frame for when the change will take effect.

The fee schedule for the referral program is structured as a percentage of the average daily balance of assets the client keeps with the advisor. The current schedule starts at 25 basis points, or 0.25%, on the first $2 million in assets. From there it drops to 0.2% on the next $3 million, 0.15% on the next $5 million, and 0.1% on any amount over $10 million.

Advisors who work with Schwab view the program as an important source of referrals as they look to expand their client base. Schwab invites prospective clients to contact it for a referral to "select, prescreened independent advisory firms with offices local to you."

Advisor firms must generally manage $250 million in client assets to receive referrals through the program.

Schwab vouches for the firms in the network, saying they have been vetted and evaluated for criteria such as experience, professional education, and the volume of assets they manage. The average advisor in the referral network has 12 years of experience, Schwab says, and many have professional designations such as Certified Financial Planner or Chartered Financial Analyst.

Schwab also insists that participating advisors be primarily compensated through fees, rather than commissions, and stipulates that all of the compensation they receive for advisory services such as financial planning be exclusively fee-based.

If a firm advertises that it provides financial-planning services, Schwab requires it to have at least two CFPs on staff to participate in the referral program.

This content was created by Barron's, which is operated by Dow Jones & Co. Barron's is published independently from Dow Jones Newswires and The Wall Street Journal.

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250212011315:0/)
