---
title: "Global Equities Roundup: Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-13 08:35:00"
summary: "The latest Market Talks covering Equities. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.1935 ET - Domain's first-half result helped send the Australian real-estate advertiser's shares higher in early trade, but it wasn't all good news for Citi analyst Siraj Ahmed. He tells clients in a note that the..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The latest Market Talks covering Equities. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.

1935 ET - Domain's first-half result helped send the Australian real-estate advertiser's shares higher in early trade, but it wasn't all good news for Citi analyst Siraj Ahmed. He tells clients in a note that the Nine Entertainment-controlled classifieds group lowered its listings growth outlook, while residential depth revenue growth also slowed in the December quarter. The interim dividend also fell short of the average analyst forecast, he adds. Citi has a last-published neutral rating and A$3.20 target price on the stock, which is up 9.3% at A$2.985. (stuart.condie@wsj.com)

1934 ET - South Korea's benchmark Kospi rises 0.5% to 2560.67 in early trade, as construction and auto stocks advance. Traders are digesting hotter-than-expected U.S. consumer inflation data for January. While foreign investors are net sellers, institutional and retail investors are net buyers. Excavator maker HD Hyundai Construction Equipment climbed 18%, leading a rally in local construction equipment stocks after U.S. President Trump said he and Russian President Putin would open talks to end the war in Ukraine. Hyundai Engineering & Construction rises 3.6%. Carmaker Hyundai Motor advances 3.2%. USD/KRW is flat at 1,453.05 in Seoul onshore trading. South Korea's 10-year government bond yield is up 3.0 bps at 2.879%.(kwanwoo.jun@wsj.com)

1927 ET - Japanese stocks are higher in early trade as a weaker yen raises hopes for earnings growth. Auto and pharmaceutical stocks are leading the gains. Subaru Corp. is up 2.8% and Daiichi Sankyo is 4.9% higher. USD/JPY is at 154.24, up from 153.64 as of Wednesday's Tokyo stock market close. Meanwhile, SoftBank Group is down 4.6% after it posted a third-quarter net loss. Investors are focusing on earnings as well as U.S. trade policies. Daiwa House Industry and Sumitomo Forestry are set to release their results later in the day. The Nikkei Stock Average is up 0.5% at 39172.02. (kosaku.narioka@wsj.com; @kosakunarioka)

1907 ET - MGM Resorts International ended 2024 with a 6% decline in fourth-quarter revenue at its Las Vegas operations, CFO Jonathan Halkyard says on a call with analysts, citing tough comparatives. "This momentum gives us optimism that MGM's Las Vegas operations can grow in 2025, with the exception of the challenging comparisons this month of February," Halkyard says. The hotel and casino operator expects Las Vegas to be a source of stability and growth in the near term, CEO Bill Hornbuckle says. "We are investing in our business and the customer experience," he adds. Shares rise 11% to $38.09 in post-market trading. (sabela.ojea@wsj.com; @sabelaojeaguix)

1901 ET - Orora's earnings guidance is likely to trigger more downgrades to market forecasts, reckons Jefferies. Orora signaled 2H EBIT would be in line with a year earlier, which implies a 9% miss to consensus hopes, analyst Henry Copley says. That view appears to be reflected in Orora's stock falling 3.9% to A$2.25 today. The share-price decline is despite Orora's 1H net profit exceeding expectations on lower net interest costs and tax. Jefferies has a buy call and A$3.00 price target on Orora. (david.winning@wsj.com; @dwinningWSJ)

1855 ET - The Aussie dollar-U.S. dollar pair is near 0.6280, after trading in a wide 70 point range in the U.S. trading session. The 0.6290 level is proving to be firm Fibonacci-related technical resistance for AUD/USD, says Krisitina Clifton, currency strategist at CBA. AUD/USD will likely follow the USD trend until the Reserve Bank of Australia's interest rate announcement on Tuesday, she adds. A 25 basis point cash rate cut, if delivered, will be the first since the Covid pandemic. Clifton says that if the RBA does not cut next week it would be a shock to the currency market and AUD/USD could lift by around 1 U.S. cent. (james.glynn@wsj.com ; @JamesGlynnWSJ)

1853 ET - Origin Energy's shares gain 1.6% after its 1H result beat consensus expectations, shrugging off lower earnings from minority-owned business Octopus. Citi says Origin's A$1.02 billion net profit was 4% ahead of market hopes, while an interim dividend of A$0.30/share was also stronger. "We had a negative outlook into today's result after the cash tax and APLNG guidance came in soft at the quarter," says analyst James Byrne, referring to the Australia Pacific LNG facility. Citi removes its negative outlook, while retaining a buy call on the stock. It says Origin's pared earnings guidance for Octopus reflects heavier investment in technology rather than poor risk management, which had been a concern for some investors. (david.winning@wsj.com; @dwinningWSJ)

1843 ET - Japanese stocks may rise as a weaker yen raises hopes for earnings growth. Nikkei futures are up 0.6% at 39210 on the SGX. USD/JPY is at 154.41, up from 153.64 as of Wednesday's Tokyo stock market close. Investors are focusing on earnings as well as U.S. trade policies. Daiwa House Industry and Sumitomo Forestry are scheduled to announce their results later in the day. The Nikkei Stock Average rose 0.4% to 38963.70 on Wednesday. (kosaku.narioka@wsj.com)

1843 ET - Orora's transition to a specialist drinks packaging company allows Citi to get a cleaner look at its cans business, which previously was folded into a business unit with glass manufacturing. Citi's initial conclusion: it looks world class. "On first take Ebitda margins at 15-16% appear comparable to global comparisons of 15-17%," says analyst Samuel Seow, who is also impressed by the four-year growth outlook for cans sales. Still, investors may not reward Orora much in the near term. Citi notes that valuations of Orora's global peers have pulled back materially in the past six months, "potentially reducing some re-rating opportunity." Citi has a neutral call on Orora, which is down 3% today. (david.winning@wsj.com; @dwinningWSJ)

1838 ET - Temple & Webster's bull at Citi is largely unconcerned by the Australian furniture retailer's softer revenue growth at the start of the June half. Analyst Siraj Ahmed tells investors in a note that second-half sales are already accelerating from that softer start, when relative growth was hit by the comparative strength of the prior-year period. On-year revenue growth is at 19% in February and getting to the expected 23% growth over the whole of the fiscal half is unlikely to happen linearly, he adds. Citi has a last-published buy rating and A$13.50 target price on the stock, which is up 11% at A$15.79. (stuart.condie@wsj.com)

1836 ET - AppLovin's Marketing Chief Katie Jansen has tendered her resignation, effective March 14, the company says as it discloses the sale of its gaming business to focus on its advertising segment. Jansen had served as CMO of the mobile advertising technology company, whose shares have skyrocketed more than sevenfold over the past year. Shares jump 28% to $486.51 after hours. (sabela.ojea@wsj.com; @sabelaojeaguix)

1832 ET - The expansion of AGL Energy's battery portfolio has grabbed the attention of UBS, which thinks it bodes well for rival Origin Energy. Analyst Tom Allen expects batteries to drive consensus upgrades to EPS forecasts from FY 2026. This provides "a strong read-through for Origin Energy, which we believe has the strongest battery portfolio in development across the market," UBS says. Still, the battery rollout means it must invest more. AGL expects to take a final investment decision on 1.4 gigawatts of new battery capacity over the next 18 months. "Despite forecasting materially higher EPS than consensus from FY 2027 we remain neutral rated as we see the potential for higher shareholder returns moderated by the scale of AGL's long-term reinvestment challenge," UBS says. (david.winning@wsj.com; @dwinningWSJ)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250212016759:0/)
