---
title: "American Express Global Business Travel to Report Fourth Quarter and Full-Year 2024 Financial Results on February 27, 2025"
date: "2025-02-13 22:05:00"
summary: "American Express Global Business Travel to Report Fourth Quarter and Full-Year 2024 Financial Results on February 27, 2025NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)--February 13, 2025--American Express Global Business Travel, which is operated by Global Business Travel Group, Inc. (\"Amex GBT\" or the \"Company\"), a leading software and services company for travel, expense, and..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

American Express Global Business Travel to Report Fourth Quarter and Full-Year 2024 Financial Results on February 27, 2025

NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)--February 13, 2025--

American Express Global Business Travel, which is operated by Global Business Travel Group, Inc. ("Amex GBT" or the "Company"), a leading software and services company for travel, expense, and meetings & events, today announced that it will report fourth quarter and full-year 2024 financial results on February 27, 2025, before the market opens. Chief Executive Officer Paul Abbott and Chief Financial Officer Karen Williams will discuss Amex GBT's financial performance and business outlook on a live audio webcast at 09:00 A.M. ET.

The webcast is expected to last approximately one hour and will be accessible by visiting the Investor Relations section of Amex GBT's website at investors.amexglobalbusinesstravel.com. A replay of the webcast will be available on the website for at least 90 days following the event.

About American Express Global Business Travel

American Express Global Business Travel (Amex GBT) is a leading software and services company for travel, expense, and meetings & events. We have built the most valuable marketplace in travel with the most comprehensive and competitive content. A choice of solutions brought to you through a strong combination of technology and people, delivering the best experiences, proven at scale. With travel professionals and business partners in more than 140 countries, our solutions deliver savings, flexibility, and service from a brand you can trust — Amex GBT.

Visit amexglobalbusinesstravel.com for more information about Amex GBT. Follow @amexgbt on X (formerly known as Twitter), LinkedIn and Instagram.

View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20250213645479/en/

CONTACT: Media:

Martin Ferguson

Vice President Global Communications and Public Affairs

martin.ferguson@amexgbt.com

Investors:

Jennifer Thorington

Vice President Investor Relations

investor@amexgbt.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250213010155:0/)
