---
title: "American Woodmark Corporation Announces Third Quarter Conference Call on the Internet"
date: "2025-02-14 00:01:00"
summary: "American Woodmark Corporation Announces Third Quarter Conference Call on the InternetWINCHESTER, Va.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--February 13, 2025--American Woodmark Corporation will provide an online, real-time webcast of its conference call to discuss third quarter results on Thursday, February 27, 2025.The live broadcast of American Woodmark Corporation's conference call will be available online at:..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

American Woodmark Corporation Announces Third Quarter Conference Call on the Internet

WINCHESTER, Va.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--February 13, 2025--

American Woodmark Corporation will provide an online, real-time webcast of its conference call to discuss third quarter results on Thursday, February 27, 2025.

The live broadcast of American Woodmark Corporation's conference call will be available online at: americanwoodmark.com on Thursday, February 27, beginning at 8:30 a.m. (Eastern Time). The online replay will follow immediately and continue for 30 days. A telephonic replay will be available from 11:30 a.m. (Eastern Time) February 27 through 11:30 a.m. (Eastern Time) March 6, by dialing 877-344-7529 and entering passcode 2244568.

About us

American Woodmark celebrates the creativity in all of us. With over 8,600 employees and more than a dozen brands, we're one of the nation's largest cabinet manufacturers. From inspiration to installation, we help people find their unique style and turn their home into a space for self-expression. By partnering with major home centers, builders, and independent dealers and distributors, we spark the imagination of homeowners and designers and bring their vision to life. Across our service and distribution centers, our corporate office, and manufacturing facilities, you'll always find the same commitment to customer satisfaction, integrity, teamwork, and excellence. Visit americanwoodmark.com to learn more and start building something distinctly your own.

View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20250213412207/en/

CONTACT: Kevin Dunnigan

VP & Treasurer

540-665-9100

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250213011513:0/)
