---
title: "U.S. Stocks Fall as Job Growth Slows — Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-08 05:04:00"
summary: "1604 ET - U.S. stocks fall as January job additions slow from the previous month, though the unemployment rate unexpectedly slips, wage growth was strong and additions over the previous two months were revised higher. Consumer sentiment falls to its lowest reading since July 2024 as inflation expectations for the..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

1604 ET - U.S. stocks fall as January job additions slow from the previous month, though the unemployment rate unexpectedly slips, wage growth was strong and additions over the previous two months were revised higher. Consumer sentiment falls to its lowest reading since July 2024 as inflation expectations for the year ahead rose to its highest level since November 2023. This adds to expectations that the Fed will pause any rate cuts longer into the year. Amazon loses 4.1% after offering lower-than-expected guidance, while planning on huge AI-related capital spending. DJIA drops 444 points, or 1%, to 44303, the S&P 500 loses 1% to 6025 and the Nasdaq falls 1.4% to 19523. All three indexes fall modestly for the week. (patrick.sullivan@wsj.com)

1545 ET - Treasury yields end a turbulent week going in different directions, as tariff threats spark fears of higher inflation in the short term and slowing economic growth later on. Forecasters have been trying to estimate the impact of tariffs on prices, but the task has been complicated by the Trump administration's on-and-off approach. January consumer and producer price index are both due next week and little change is expected. Future markets show diminishing bets on more than one cut by the Fed this year. The 10-year falls 0.083 percentage point this week, to 4.483%, while the two-year rises 0.042 p.p. to 4.277%. (paulo.trevisani@wsj.com; @ptrevisani)

1532 ET - Borrowing by consumers marked one of its largest increases in months to close out 2024. Outstanding consumer credit rose at a 9.6% seasonally adjusted annual rate in December, after declining by 1.3% in November. It was a sharp increase after consumer credit tended to grow at a roughly 1% to 2% rate for most of 2024. The December jump was led by a 20% increase in revolving consumer credit, which includes credit-card debt, but also included a 5.8% jump in non-revolving credit, which includes loans for cars, mobile homes, education and other items. The data exclude loans backed by real estate. (mat.grossman@wsj.com, @mattgrossman)

1510 ET - Gold briefly climbs to new intraday highs over $2,900 a troy ounce following economic data early in the session, before ending up 0.4% to $2,867.30 an ounce. It's the second-highest ever close. Analysts are calling for gold to continue its rise to $3,000 an ounce. "The gold bull market looks set to continue under Trump 2.0 with trade wars and geopolitical tensions reinforcing the reserve diversification/de-dollarization trend," Citi says in a note. SPDR Gold rises 0.3%. (kirk.maltais@wsj.com)

1407 ET - Coty will likely remain bearish around the state of the beauty industry in its upcoming results, expected for Monday. While the company will likely benefit from a growing fragrance market in the U.S., its color cosmetics business is expected to be weaker. That market is rapidly slowing, according to L'Oréal's Finance Chief Christophe Babule. Coty, together with its peers in the beauty industry, have lost billions of dollars in market cap. Coty currently has a market value of around $5.9 billion, down around 40% from a year ago. e.l.f. Beauty, one of its biggest competitors on the CoverGirl brand side, has seen its stock plunge nearly 60%, while Estée Lauder has lost 55%. Industry giant L'Oreal has remained in a more stable position, but has still experienced stock losses of around 19%. (sabela.ojea@wsj.com; @sabelaojeaguix)

1348 ET - Investors are mostly betting the Fed will cut interest rates at least once this year, but BNP Paribas' James Egelhof and Andrew Husby see no easing in 2025. The FOMC will likely "remain on hold through mid-2026," they write in comments about today's jobs report. They highlight that "the trend rate of hiring rose, the unemployment rate dropped despite higher participation, and wage growth picked up." Egelhof and Husby see the potential for even more tightening: "if strong labor demand continues, we think this would significantly increase the risk of the FOMC needing to hike rates this year." (paulo.trevisani@wsj.com; @ptrevisani)The market is embracing Bill Ackman's acquired stake in Uber Technologies through Pershing Square, driving gains for both the billionaire's investment fund and the ride-sharing app. Shares of the San Francisco-based company are currently trading up around 9.2% at $76.45, making Ackman's 30.3-million-share position worth $2.32 billion. The executive believes Uber is highly undervalued and says it will share more about its plans for the company shortly. "We believe that Uber is one of the best managed and highest quality businesses in the world. Remarkably, it can still be purchased at a massive discount to its intrinsic value," he said in a post on X.(sabela.ojea@wsj.com; @sabelaojeaguix)

1304 ET - Newell Brands has been reducing its dependence on China for the last few years and started accelerating that effort about a year ago, CEO Chris Peterson says on a call with analysts. The maker of Sharpies and Yankee Candles has already completed multiple insourcing products, including for finished goods and raw material components in its writing, baby and home businesses, the CEO says. Newell is also moving production from China to alternate geographies, he says. Imports from China currently account for about 15% of the company's total cost of goods sold, and a large portion of that are baby products that are exempt from tariffs, the CEO says. Newell aims to get that figure down to 10% by the end of the year. (dean.seal@wsj.com)

1302 ET - Pinterest's AI thesis is taking shape, BofA Securities analysts say in a research note. The social-media platform's growing AI integration and the potential for topline acceleration are driving confidence among investors, the analysts say. "New AI-powered targeting & automation tools have a multi-year runway to boost conversion rates and further unlock platform's potential for shopping ads in 2025," the analysts add. Shares jump 18% on higher-than-expected revenue guidance for the current quarter. (sabela.ojea@wsj.com; @sabelaojeaguix)

1240 ET - Pinterest has managed to get its long-inconsistent engagement and monetization dynamics in sync, Benchmark analysts Mark Zgutowicz and Alex Lavigne say in a research note. That has come in part from artificial-intelligence efficiencies and a shift in marketing toward driving sales rather than just generating awareness or interest, the analysts say. The company's history of under-indexing its billions of unique first-party data seems to be in the rearview, they add. Growth in engagement across its developed markets suggests that the company's guidance for accelerating revenue growth in 1Q isn't temporary, the analysts say. Benchmark upgrades shares to buy from hold. Pinterest climbs 18%. (dean.seal@wsj.com)

1230 ET - Pinterest is using artificial intelligence to drive user engagement and ad targeting in a strategy that's similar to the one Meta Platforms has been excelling with so far, Oppenheimer analysts say in a research note. The social-media platform's AI tools have boosted both user engagement and returns for its advertisers, the analysts say. Weekly active users and monthly active users have improved. The company also boasts a better, older and more affluent audience than social-media competitor Snapchat, the analysts say. Pinterest surges 18% on higher-than-expected revenue guidance for the current quarter.(dean.seal@wsj.com)

1213 ET - The dollar strengthens as Reuters reports that President Trump told Republican lawmakers he is about to announce tariffs on trade partners that impose such levies on American exports. The WSJ Dollar Index and the ICE's DXY are both up around 0.3%. The greenback was sluggish in early trade. It is now up 0.3% versus the euro and around 0.3% stronger against the Chinese yuan, the Brazilian real and the Indian rupee. (paulo.trevisani@wsj.com; @ptrevisani)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250207010025:0/)
