---
title: "Global Forex and Fixed Income Roundup: Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-13 23:15:00"
summary: "The latest Market Talks covering FX and Fixed Income. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.1015 ET - A ceasefire in the Ukraine-Russia war could pave the way for a reconstruction project akin to the Marshall Plan that helped rebuild parts of Europe after the World War II..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The latest Market Talks covering FX and Fixed Income. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.

1015 ET - A ceasefire in the Ukraine-Russia war could pave the way for a reconstruction project akin to the Marshall Plan that helped rebuild parts of Europe after the World War II or a common bond plan similar to the EU Recovery Fund launched after the Covid pandemic, UBS analysts say. The potential cost of rebuilding Ukraine has been estimated at $0.6 trillion, they note. A ceasefire would also lower energy prices, especially if the deal allows Russian gas to flow again, they add. Falling gas helps lower the price of electricity, which has been abnormally high relative to the U.S., the analysts say. UBS considers a ceasefire quite likely because of increasing signs of fatigue from Ukraine, rising distress in the Russian economy, and the pressure to reach a deal exerted by U.S. President Trump. (cristina.gallardo@wsj.com)

1010 ET - There is a five-month supply of homes for sale in the U.S., up from 4.4 months last year, the highest since early 2019, according to Redfin. Inventory is growing because more sellers are listing homes--new listings increased by 7.4% year over year--while buyer interest wanes, with pending sales down 6%. High housing costs, with median monthly payments nearly at record highs, and a 4.3% rise in home prices, are major deterrents. Mortgage rates are currently at 6.89%, down slightly, but still high compared to pre-and early-pandemic rates. Redfin says there may be an uptick in house hunters soon if mortgage rates start dropping again. (chris.wack@wsj.com)

1002 ET - Global central banks are likely to keep moving in different directions, as the Fed remains worried about sticky inflation while others try to spur economic growth, TS Lombard's Dario Perkins writes. "Monetary divergence is finally here," he says. Odds that the Fed would cut rates this year are falling as inflation remains above target. Perkins says price increases are likely to slow later this year, but uncertainties stemming from Trump policies would keep the Fed on hold. "Such considerations are weaker outside the US." He says that, in other countries, "trade wars are a reason to cut interest rates faster." (paulo.trevisani@wsj.com; @ptrevisani)

0959 ET - U.S. housing supply is increasing due to multiple factors, according to Redfin. The fading "mortgage rate lock-in effect" is a key reason. Homeowners with low rates from the pandemic are less reluctant to move despite higher rates now. Homes are staying on the market longer, with January sales taking 56 days on average, the longest since 2020. Demand is cooling as existing home sales dropped 1.7% in January, influenced by a 4.1% rise in median home prices to $418,581, which is 45% higher than pre-pandemic levels. Economic uncertainties like tariffs, federal workforce reductions, and return-to-office policies are also dampening buyer and seller enthusiasm. (chris.wack@wsj.com)

0958 ET - Issuance of new U.S. dollar investment-grade credit is expected to rise in 2025 as corporates raise funds to refinance maturing debt, TD Securities' Hans Mikkelsen says in a note. Index eligible U.S. IG corporate bonds due to mature in 2025 are estimated at $682 billion, an increase from $554 billion in 2024, Mikkelsen says. (miriam.mukuru@wsj.com)

0950 ET - Homebuyers have the most options since 2020, but few are biting because rising housing costs have made monthly payments tough to swallow, Redfin says. Pending home sales in January fell to the lowest level on record aside from the start of the pandemic. They dropped 4.2% month-over- month--the largest decline on a seasonally adjusted basis since August 2023--and 6.3% year-over- year. Meanwhile, active listings of homes for sale rose to the highest level since early in the pandemic. They climbed 0.3% month-over-month on a seasonally adjusted basis in January and 12.9% year-over-year. New listings hit the highest level since July 2022, increasing 1.9% month-over- month and 4.7% year-over-year. (chris.wack@wsj.com)

0914 ET - The producer-price index rose by more than expected in January. But the components that matter for the Fed's preferred inflation metric, the personal consumption expenditures price index, were relatively tame, writes Paul Ashworth of Capital Economics. That will likely be good enough to help 12-month core PCE inflation decline to 2.6% in January, from 2.8% in December, Ashworth writes. Ashworth thinks that core PCE probably rose by 0.3% month over month in January. He estimates headline PCE rose by 0.3% month over month as well. With CPI and PPI data in hand for January, analysts can forecast last month's PCE figure with high accuracy. (matt.grossman@wsj.com; @mattgrossman)

0908 ET - The Fed has "zero reason to cut interest rates right now," writes Paul Stanley, of Granite Bay Wealth Management, in comments about January PPI inflation. The 0.4% print was higher than expected by economists surveyed by The Wall Street Journal, while decelerating from a 0.5% pace in December--a figure that was revised from 0.2%. The increase follows a hotter-than-expected CPI reading yesterday. "The resurgence of inflation comes at a unique time, as the economy braces for tariffs, which if sustained, could add yet another inflationary pressure," Stanley says. He adds that fixed-income investors may see an opportunity to lock in higher yields at this time. (paulo.trevisani@wsj.com; @ptrevisani)

0905 ET - Canadian Tire says it is hedged for the majority of its U.S.-sourced goods, but 2026 is the wild card. The retailer's executives say on a call that they purchase about 15% of their goods from the U.S., but for 2025, they have already hedged forward over 80% of their US goods, but warned that there is "margin risk in 2026." The tariff threat introduces a "new zone of uncertainty." The biggest danger for Canadian Tire, however, is the indirect impacts on employment levels and spending habits. The company has been reassessing its product assortment in preparation. (adriano.marchese@wsj.com)

0856 ET - Treasury yields weaken following an increase on January PPI inflation index and a decrease in weekly jobless claims. The wholesale price index for final demand was higher than expected, at 0.4%, while December's figure was revised to 0.5% from 0.2%. January's core reading was 0.3%, as expected. Initial jobless claims were 213,000, down from a revised 220,000 in the previous week. Economists forecast 215,000, in a Wall Street Journal survey. Hotter prices and falling layoffs reinforce the case for a prolonged Fed pause. Still, yields give back some of yesterday's gains triggered by hot CPI inflation. The 10-year is at 4.571% and the two-year at 4.319%. (paulo.trevisani@wsj.com; @ptrevisani)

0852 ET - Canadian small- and mid-sized businesses are scrambling to deal with US trade policy uncertainty, according to a survey of 2,200 owners and managers conducted by the Canadian Federation of Independent Business. The Canadian small-business lobby says at least a fifth of members report having orders canceled or paused due to President Trump's threat to slap a 25% tariff on nonenergy goods and a 10% levy on energy products. Moreover, a quarter of respondents say they are delaying expansions plans, 20% indicate they will likely cut payrolls, and nearly half are looking for new suppliers. Minutes from the Bank of Canada's rate-policy deliberations last month indicate that officials viewed "prolonged trade uncertainty" as the biggest downside risk to the country's economic outlook. (Paul.Vieira@wsj.com, @paulvieira)

0850 ET - HSBC Research maintains its mildly positive conviction on core eurozone government bonds this month in anticipation of more rate cuts by the European Central Bank, says Chris Attfield in a note. "The signals coming from the ECB are sounding more dovish in our view, with more emphasis on the downside risk to growth and less on sticky domestic inflation," the European rates strategist says. The lower level of yields means that Bunds now offer less value than at HSBC Research's last publication, he says. Eurozone government bond yields fall, with the 10-year Bund yield down 5 basis points to last trade at 2.432%, according to Tradeweb. (emese.bartha@wsj.com)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250213010969:0/)
