---
title: "News Highlights: Top Global Markets News of the Day - Friday at 3 PM ET"
date: "2025-02-08 04:15:00"
summary: "The Mood of the American Consumer is SouringEconomists polled by The Wall Street Journal had expected sentiment to improve after dropping in January. But it instead deteriorated.Solid January Jobs Report Plays Into the Fed's PauseAfter a solid January jobs report, more traders are betting that the Fed's rate-cut pause might..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

**The Mood of the American Consumer is Souring**

Economists polled by The Wall Street Journal had expected sentiment to improve after dropping in January. But it instead deteriorated.

**Solid January Jobs Report Plays Into the Fed's Pause**

After a solid January jobs report, more traders are betting that the Fed's rate-cut pause might not be so brief.

**S&P 500 Edges Up After Nonfarm Payrolls**

Stocks moved lower after a mixed jobs report showed the economy added 143,000 roles in January, slightly lower than forecast.

**Hiring Slows but Remains Solid, With Economy Adding 143,000 Jobs**

The gain in jobs was lower than expected, but the job counts for November and December were revised upward by a combined 100,000.

**Trump Says He'll Announce Reciprocal Tariffs Next Week**

The president didn't specificy which countries would be targeted.

**U.S. Wholesale Inventories Fell Back in December**

Stocks at U.S. wholesalers contracted in December, with the fall driven by inventories of longer-lasting goods, government data said.

**Canada Unemployment Rate Dips Again in January to 6.6%**

The economy added 76,000 jobs last month, Statistics Canada said.

**Gold Has Smashed Record After Record. It Is Set to Continue Glittering in 2025**

Gold's record-breaking rally isn't likely to slow down any time soon, as the market casts about for economic safe-havens.

**Food Prices Fell in January on Cheaper Sugar, Vegetable Oils, UN Says**

An index tracking global prices for a basket of staple foods dropped 1.6%, driven by significantly cheaper sugar and vegetable oils.

**Week Ahead for FX, Bonds: U.S. Inflation Data, Fed Comments in Focus**

U.S. inflation data plus comments from Fed Chair Jerome Powell could be key for determining the path for U.S. interest rates. Meanwhile, further news from the Trump administration regarding plans for tariffs will continue to attract close attention.

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250207009542:0-news-highlights-top-global-markets-news-of-the-day-friday-at-3-pm-et/)
