---
title: "News Highlights: Top Financial Services News of the Day - Thursday at 11 AM ET"
date: "2025-02-14 00:15:00"
summary: "Brookfield Credit Chief Bullish on Future Growth of Asset-Based LendingThe firm said it expects to double its roughly $317 billion in total credit assets within five years.Barclays Guides For Growth After Quarterly BeatThe lender expects an increase in profitability this year after group revenue rose 24%, boosted by its investment..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

**Brookfield Credit Chief Bullish on Future Growth of Asset-Based Lending**

The firm said it expects to double its roughly $317 billion in total credit assets within five years.

**Barclays Guides For Growth After Quarterly Beat**

The lender expects an increase in profitability this year after group revenue rose 24%, boosted by its investment bank and its domestic retail division.

**This Hedge Fund Delivered a Solid Year. So Why Can't Its Investors Cash Out?**

Clients of Armistice Capital who recently redeemed got stuck with IOUs that have lost money in 2025.

**Jamie Dimon Sounds Off on Remote Work, Bureaucracy, 'Pablum and Bulls-'**

JPMorgan Chase CEO doesn't hold back answering questions during an internal meeting with staffers of the financial giant.

**Adyen Shares Jump After Strong Growth in Key Markets**

The Dutch payments company's stock rose on strong performance across all its key divisions.

**Commerzbank to Cut Jobs in Bid to Boost Returns and Fend off UniCredit**

The lender plans to lay off around 9% of its workforce to boost returns and convince investors of its standalone prospects.

**Financial Services Roundup: Market Talk**

Find insight on Barclays, Commerzbank, chip-card technology and more in the latest Market Talks covering Financial Services.

**Capital One's Lounges Are Great. Stay for the Stock as Discover Joins the Party.**

The bank's deal for Discover looks like a good bet for investors, creating a new financial giant that will control both ends of the card business.

**Robinhood Stock Jumps as Earnings Blow Past Forecasts**

Robinhood benefited from a surge in investor activity as customers piled into stocks and cryptocurrencies.

**Why Tariffs Will Make Car Insurance Even More Expensive**

Costlier cars or auto parts can increase claims costs, which take time to filter through to car-insurance rates.

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250213011629:0-news-highlights-top-financial-services-news-of-the-day-thursday-at-11-am-et/)
