---
title: "Claros Mortgage Trust, Inc. Announces Dates for Fourth Quarter 2024 Earnings Release and Conference Call"
date: "2025-02-11 05:25:00"
summary: "Claros Mortgage Trust, Inc. Announces Dates for Fourth Quarter 2024 Earnings Release and Conference CallNEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)--February 10, 2025--Claros Mortgage Trust, Inc. (the \"Company\" or \"CMTG\") today announced that it will release its fourth quarter and full-year fiscal 2024 financial results after the closing of trading on the New York..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Claros Mortgage Trust, Inc. Announces Dates for Fourth Quarter 2024 Earnings Release and Conference Call

NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)--February 10, 2025--

Claros Mortgage Trust, Inc. (the "Company" or "CMTG") today announced that it will release its fourth quarter and full-year fiscal 2024 financial results after the closing of trading on the New York Stock Exchange on Wednesday, February 19, 2025.

A conference call to discuss CMTG's financial results will be held on Thursday, February 20, 2025, at 10:00 a.m. ET. The conference call may be accessed by dialing 1-833-470-1428 and referencing the Claros Mortgage Trust, Inc. teleconference call; access code 138857.

The conference call will also be broadcast live over the internet and may be accessed through the Investor Relations section of CMTG's website at www.clarosmortgage.com. An earnings presentation accompanying the earnings release and containing supplemental information about the Company's financial results may also be accessed through this website in advance of the call.

For those unable to listen to the live broadcast, a webcast replay will be available on CMTG's website or by dialing 1-866-813-9403, access code 569832, beginning approximately two hours after the event.

About Claros Mortgage Trust, Inc.

CMTG is a real estate investment trust that is focused primarily on originating senior and subordinate loans on transitional commercial real estate assets located in major markets across the U.S. CMTG is externally managed and advised by Claros REIT Management LP, an affiliate of Mack Real Estate Credit Strategies, L.P. Additional information can be found on the Company's website at www.clarosmortgage.com.

View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20250210550112/en/

CONTACT: Investor Relations:

Claros Mortgage Trust, Inc.

Anh Huynh

212-484-0090

cmtgIR@mackregroup.com

Media Relations:

Financial Profiles

Kelly McAndrew

203-613-1552

Kmcandrew@finprofiles.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250210010530:0/)
