---
title: "DuPont Stock Rises on Strong Earnings and Outlook — Barrons.com"
date: "2025-02-11 23:13:00"
summary: "Al RootDuPont stock rose early Tuesday after the company reported better-than-expected fourth-quarter earnings. The company's outlook for 2025 was helping, too.The materials technology company reported adjusted earnings per share of $1.13 from sales of $3.1 billion. DuPont affirmed fourth-quarter guidance given in November. Then, DuPont expected to earn about 98..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Al Root

DuPont stock rose early Tuesday after the company reported better-than-expected fourth-quarter earnings. The company's outlook for 2025 was helping, too.

The materials technology company reported adjusted earnings per share of $1.13 from sales of $3.1 billion. DuPont affirmed fourth-quarter guidance given in November. Then, DuPont expected to earn about 98 cents a share in the fourth quarter from sales of $3.1 billion. Those numbers matched Wall Street estimates.

DuPont sandbagged a little. It produced bottom-line earnings better than guidance.

DuPont stock was up 5.5% in early trading at $80.47, while the S&P 500 and Dow Jones Industrial Average were down about 0.3% each.

Looking ahead, DuPont expects to generate earnings of 95 cents a share from sales of $3 billion in the first quarter. Wall Street was looking for 79 cents and $2.9 billion, respectively.

For the full year, DuPont expects to generate a profit of about $4.35 a share from sales of $12.9 billion. Wall Street was looking for $3.91 and $12.4 billion, respectively.

The outlook was encouraging. First-quarter sales and full-year sales are expected to grow at a "mid-single digit" rate, excluding headwinds from foreign exchange.

Comparable sales grew by 1% in 2024.

DuPont removed some of the drama from the report after announcing on Jan. 15 that it plans to break into two companies. Before that, it was thinking about breaking into three companies.

Coming into Tuesday, DuPont stock has risen about 11% over the past 12 months. The S&P 500 has gained about 21%.

Write to Al Root at allen.root@dowjones.com

This content was created by Barron's, which is operated by Dow Jones & Co. Barron's is published independently from Dow Jones Newswires and The Wall Street Journal.

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250211003209:0/)
