---
title: "News Highlights: Top Company News of the Day - Thursday at 9 AM ET"
date: "2025-02-13 22:15:00"
summary: "Musk Says He Will Pull Bid if OpenAI Remains a NonprofitThe unsolicited offer has complicated OpenAI CEO Sam Altman's plans for the ChatGPT maker's future.Crocs 4Q Results Beat Estimate with Lift from Heydude BrandCrocs posted higher-than-expected results in its fourth quarter led in part by stability at its Heydude brand,..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

**Musk Says He Will Pull Bid if OpenAI Remains a Nonprofit**

The unsolicited offer has complicated OpenAI CEO Sam Altman's plans for the ChatGPT maker's future.

**Crocs 4Q Results Beat Estimate with Lift from Heydude Brand**

Crocs posted higher-than-expected results in its fourth quarter led in part by stability at its Heydude brand, bolstering confidence that turnaround efforts are panning out.

**Honda, Nissan End Merger Talks, Leaving Nissan to Seek Other Partners**

The chief executives of the two automakers, at separate news conferences, traded jabs about Honda's bid to change the terms of the deal.

**Deere Beats Earnings Estimates but the Stock Is Dropping. Here's Why.**

Deere maintains its financial guidance, saying it expects large-equipment sales to decline by 30% in the U.S. in fiscal 2025.

**GE HealthCare Stock Rises on Strong Earnings and Outlook**

The medical imaging company issues solid guidance for 2025.

**Barclays Guides For Growth After Quarterly Beat**

The lender expects an increase in profitability this year after group revenue rose 24%, boosted by its investment bank and its domestic retail division.

**Nestle Posts Weakest Sales Growth in More Than Two Decades**

A pullback from budget-conscious shoppers is hurting Nestle, but the company said there are early signs of progress in reviving sales growth.

**Sony Group Raises Earnings Guidance**

The Japanese entertainment and electronics company raised its annual earnings projections after its third-quarter net profit rose on strength in its game and music businesses.

**Unilever Picks Amsterdam Over London for Ice Cream Unit's Primary Listing**

The move ends months of speculation over how the company would move ahead with its plans to separate the business.

**Siemens Net Profit Beats Market Views on Continued Data Center Demand**

The industrial conglomerate has been among the early winners in a data-center boom driven by AI.

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250213010259:0-news-highlights-top-company-news-of-the-day-thursday-at-9-am-et/)
