---
title: "McDonald's, Super Micro, DoorDash, Cisco, and More Stocks to Watch This Week — Barrons.com"
date: "2025-02-10 03:00:00"
summary: "By Nicholas JasinskiThe latest inflation data and a barrage of fourth-quarter earnings reports will be the highlights for investors this week.On Wednesday, the Bureau of Labor Statistics will publish the consumer price index for January. With the Federal Reserve's interest-rate cuts on hold, all eyes will be searching for signs..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Nicholas Jasinski

The latest inflation data and a barrage of fourth-quarter earnings reports will be the highlights for investors this week.

On Wednesday, the Bureau of Labor Statistics will publish the consumer price index for January. With the Federal Reserve's interest-rate cuts on hold, all eyes will be searching for signs of renewed progress in slowing inflation. The BLS will release the producer price index for January on Thursday.

Other economic data to watch this week will include the National Federation of Independent Business' Small Business Optimism Index for January on Tuesday and the Census Bureau's retail sales for January on Friday.

Earnings reports will come from McDonald's on Monday, then Coca-Cola, DoorDash, Marriott International, Shopify, and Super Micro Computer on Tuesday. Cisco Systems, Robinhood Markets, Ventas, and Vertiv Holdings report on Wednesday.

Airbnb, Applied Materials, Coinbase Global, Deere, Wynn Resorts, and Zoetis publish results on Thursday, then Enbridge and Moderna close the week on Friday.

Monday 2/10

Arch Capital Group, Cincinnati Financial, Incyte, Loews, McDonald's, ON Semiconductor, Rockwell Automation, and Vertex Pharmaceuticals announce earnings.

Tuesday 2/11

American International Group, Assurant, BP, Carrier Global, Coca-Cola, DoorDash, DuPont, Ecolab, Edwards Lifesciences, Energy Transfer, Fidelity National Information Services, Gilead Sciences, GlobalFoundries, Humana, Marriott, Masco, Shopify, S&P Global, Super Micro, Welltower, and Zillow Group report quarterly results.

The National Federation of Independent Business releases its Small Business Optimism Index for January. Economists forecast a 104.7 reading, slightly lower than December's 105.1, which was a six-year high.

Wednesday 2/12

Albemarle, AppLovin, Barrick Gold, Biogen, Brookfield Asset Management, Cisco, CME Group, CVS Health, Dominion Energy, Equinix, Exelon, Generac Holdings, HubSpot, Interpublic Group, Kraft Heinz, Martin Marietta Materials, MGM Resorts International, NiSource, Reddit, Robinhood, Rollins, Trade Desk, Tyler Technologies, Ventas, Vertiv, Waste Connections, Waters Corp., Westinghouse Air Brake Technologies, and Williams Cos. release earnings.

The Bureau of Labor Statistics releases the consumer price index for January. Consensus estimate is for the CPI to increase by 2.9% year over year. The core CPI, which strips out food and energy prices, is expected to rise by 3.2%. Both estimates would match the December figures.

The annual change in the CPI was between 2.4% and 2.9% in the second half of last year, but it has stalled in getting to the Fed's 2% inflation target. The BLS will also release its annual revisions to the CPI with this report, which might affect data from the previous five years.

Thursday 2/13

Airbnb, Alnylam Pharmaceuticals, Ameren, American Electric Power, Applied Materials, Brookfield, CBRE Group, Coinbase, Datadog, DaVita, Deere, Dexcom, Digital Realty Trust, DTE Energy, Duke Energy, GE HealthCare Technologies, GoDaddy, Global Payments, Howmet Aerospace, Iron Mountain, Molson Coors Beverage, Moody's Motorola Solutions, Palo Alto Networks, PG&E, PPL, Republic Services, Sony Group, Twilio, Unilever, West Pharmaceutical Services, Wynn Resorts, Zebra Technologies, and Zoetis hold conference calls to discuss quarterly results.

The BLS releases the producer price index for January. The consensus call is for a 3.2% year-over-year gain, while the core PPI is seen rising by 3.3%. This compares with increases of 3.3% and 3.5%, respectively, in December.

Friday 2/14

Enbridge and Moderna report earnings.

The Census Bureau reports retail sales for January. Economists forecast retail spending to remain flat month over month, after a 0.4% increase in December. Excluding autos, retail sales are expected to increase by 0.3%, one-tenth of a percentage point less than previously.

* Dan Lam contributed to this article

Write to Nicholas Jasinski at nicholas.jasinski@barrons.com

This content was created by Barron's, which is operated by Dow Jones & Co. Barron's is published independently from Dow Jones Newswires and The Wall Street Journal.

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250209000400:0/)
