---
title: "News Highlights: Top Company News of the Day - Friday at 1 PM ET"
date: "2025-02-08 02:15:00"
summary: "Newell Brands Projects 2025 Revenue DeclineThe maker of Yankee Candle and Sharpie pens said volumes fell and foreign exchange rates were a headwind in the fourth quarter.Porsche Shares Slide After Profit Warning for 2025The sports-car maker warned that profits will be hurt this year as it spends more on expanding..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

**Newell Brands Projects 2025 Revenue Decline**

The maker of Yankee Candle and Sharpie pens said volumes fell and foreign exchange rates were a headwind in the fourth quarter.

**Porsche Shares Slide After Profit Warning for 2025**

The sports-car maker warned that profits will be hurt this year as it spends more on expanding its line-up of new cars.

**Tech Giants Double Down on Their Massive AI Spending**

Amazon, Google, Microsoft and Meta are pouring billions into artificial intelligence, undeterred by DeepSeek's rise.

**BPER Banca Joins Italy's M&A Spree With $4.5 Billion Bid for Smaller Rival**

The lender said that it was offering EUR9.527 for each Banca Popolare di Sondrio share, representing a 6.6% premium on Wednesday's closing share price.

**Pinterest Stock Soars After Hitting First Billion-Dollar Quarter. Why AI Is the Next Catalyst.**

Pinterest's global monthly active users reached an all-time high of 553 million in the fourth quarter, an increase of 11% from the previous year.

**Amazon Pours Fuel on Big Tech Spending After DeepSeek Panic**

The e-commerce giant is pulling ahead of rivals in the AI investment race with plans for more than $100 billion in capital expenditures this year.

**Affirm Earnings Beat Estimates. The Stock Is Soaring.**

The 'buy now, pay later' company beat estimates for quarterly earnings, sales, and gross merchandise volume.

**The Drug Industry Is Having Its Own DeepSeek Moment**

It isn't just artificial intelligence. Chinese biotech companies are now developing drugs faster and cheaper than their U.S. counterparts.

**State Farm Was All In on California-Until It Pulled the Plug Before the Fires**

The insurer aggressively grew in Los Angeles, despite getting overweight on fire risk, but decided to cut thousands of policies last year, adding to the state's home-insurance crisis.

**Xiaomi Shares Hit All-Time High Amid Glowy Outlook**

Xiaomi's shares hit a new intraday high in Hong Kong as optimism grew over the earnings outlook for the Chinese consumer-electronics specialist this year.

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250207008950:0-news-highlights-top-company-news-of-the-day-friday-at-1-pm-et/)
