---
title: "Amazon Stock Was Hit After Earnings. Analysts See a Comeback Ahead. — Barrons.com"
date: "2025-02-11 02:39:00"
summary: "By Angela PalumboAmazon.com stock has experienced some pain since the company reported earnings, but that hasn't stopped analysts from predicting a comeback in the months ahead.Amazon reported stronger than anticipated fourth-quarter earnings after the stock market closed on Thursday, but shares of the e-commerce company still fell 4.1% on Friday...."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Angela Palumbo

Amazon.com stock has experienced some pain since the company reported earnings, but that hasn't stopped analysts from predicting a comeback in the months ahead.

Amazon reported stronger than anticipated fourth-quarter earnings after the stock market closed on Thursday, but shares of the e-commerce company still fell 4.1% on Friday. The drop was its largest percentage decrease since Dec. 18, according to Dow Jones Market Data.

If investors have learned anything recently, it is that an earnings beat isn't enough to push shares of highly valued tech stocks higher.

That is where Amazon dropped the ball. The company reported growth in AWS — its important cloud unit — that fell below Wall Street expectations. On top of that, the revenue outlook for the first quarter was disappointing, and management said on the conference call that it expects to spend about $100 billion in 2025, driven by the AI data center buildout.

"The projected revenue growth for Q1 could shape up to be one of the slowest on record since going public," wrote Emma Bakken, Direxion senior business analyst, on Friday.

She added that the "sizable capex spend for this year combined with the lowered revenue expectations for next quarter could give bears some ammunition on their thesis that the stock could head lower short term."

But several analysts came out of earnings expecting Amazon's stock to rebound.

New Street Research analyst Dan Salmon increased his price target on Amazon to $280 from $234 on Monday, which implies a 22% increase from the stock's closing price of $229.15 on Friday. Salmon also maintained his Buy rating on the stock, and wrote Amazon remains their top pick.

"We think the trajectory of AWS revenue growth will increasingly become the #1 narrative in '25." Salmon said.

He added that some possible drivers for the stock include potential growth of custom Trainium chips and updates on the performance of gen-AI shopping tools such as Rufus.

Monness, Crespi, Hardt analyst Brian White also raised his price target on Amazon after earnings, to $265 from $245. He wrote in a research note on Friday the near-term stock pullback is a buying opportunity.

"We believe Amazon will continue to capitalize on the cloud, expand its digital ad business, innovate with gen AI, realize efficiencies from a regional fulfillment network, and leverage a leaner cost structure," White wrote on Friday.

Shares of Amazon were up 1.2% on Monday to $231.90. The stock has now risen 35% over the past 12 months.

Write to Angela Palumbo at angela.palumbo@dowjones.com

This content was created by Barron's, which is operated by Dow Jones & Co. Barron's is published independently from Dow Jones Newswires and The Wall Street Journal.

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250210008567:0/)
