---
title: "ABN Amro Shares Jump After Core Results, Capital Position Reassure — Update"
date: "2025-02-12 20:15:00"
summary: "By Elena VardonABN Amro's shares hit their highest level in more than five years after the Dutch bank reported revenue ahead of expectations and it reassured on its capital return plans and balance-sheet strength.The Dutch lender on Wednesday said it made 2.24 billion euros ($2.32 billion) in total revenue for..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Elena Vardon

ABN Amro's shares hit their highest level in more than five years after the Dutch bank reported revenue ahead of expectations and it reassured on its capital return plans and balance-sheet strength.

The Dutch lender on Wednesday said it made 2.24 billion euros ($2.32 billion) in total revenue for the three months ended Dec. 31, which was a touch ahead of the expected 2.18 billion euro figure. The 10% on-year increase was driven by both net interest income--the difference between interest received on loans and that paid out on customer deposits--which came in at 1.67 billion euros, as well as 500 million euros income from fees and commissions from all client units.

The bank's mortgage book continued to grow in the fourth quarter while its corporate loan book decreased, reflecting more capital allocation and steering, Chief Executive Swaak said.

ABN Amro--whose largest shareholder remains the Dutch state--reported net profit of 397 million euros. This was 27% lower than the same quarter a year prior and came short of a 407 million euros median estimate taken from a company-complied consensus due to heavier costs.

"The actual results are very good since even though there is a miss at the bottom line, this is due to one offs and tax," ING analyst Jason Kalamboussis said in a note to clients. Deutsche Bank analysts described the results as largely solid with strong core revenue performance as a positive.

Shares rose as much as 9% in European morning exchanges to almost 18 euros.

The revenue beat was wiped by a 10% rise in operating expenses due to the filling of staff vacancies and IT costs, which amounted to 1.61 billion euros for the quarter, heavier than consensus' 1.48 billion euros.

The bank also said it expects net interest income to slip to between 6.2 billion euros and 6.4 billion euros this year from the 6.5 billion euros it achieved in 2024, reflecting rates cuts from the European Central Bank. It guided for 2025 costs to be broadly flat on prior year's 5.3 billion euros.

ABN Amro's outlook is mixed according to ING's Kalamboussis since the lower net interest income view compares with the guidance given on Tuesday by peer Rabobank, who expects a flat result. "Having delivered on its targets in 2024, this may be (and probably should) be viewed as conservatism, or a harsher view on the Dutch economy," he noted.

"As we come off a very high level of fees, we do expect to see for 2025 our fee growth--probably on the back of the uncertainties that we are facing in the economy these days--to be within the range that we earlier guided for, so 3% to 5%," Chief Executive Robert Swaak said in a call with reporters.

Swaak has been at the helm since 2020 and will leave the role without completing his second term in the coming months. Marguerite Berard, a former BNP Paribas executive, was appointed to succeed him and is set to join the lender in late April.

The lender confirmed that it will provide an update on a potential share buyback at its second-quarter results in August. The decision was postponed in November as the application of capital regulation reforms and the simplification of its credit risk models were taking longer than expected.

Its common equity Tier 1 ratio--a measure of balance-sheet strength--stood at 14.5% at the end of 2024, ahead of the expected 14.1%.

"A stronger capital ratio and more visibility on the Basel IV ratio are positives," RBC Capital Markets analyst Anke Reingen wrote. ABN Amro said it has made progress in the implementation of the Basel reforms to the banking industry and expects the Basel IV capital ratio to be at a similar level as its Basel III capital ratio.

Write to Elena Vardon at elena.vardon@wsj.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250212006527:0/)
