---
title: "Global Energy Roundup: Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-10 23:49:00"
summary: "The latest Market Talks covering Energy markets. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.1049 ET - Corporate bonds issued by companies within U.S. tech, auto and basic materials sectors have a higher exposure to foreign revenue and are more vulnerable to tariffs implemented by President Trump, BNP Paribas..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The latest Market Talks covering Energy markets. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.

1049 ET - Corporate bonds issued by companies within U.S. tech, auto and basic materials sectors have a higher exposure to foreign revenue and are more vulnerable to tariffs implemented by President Trump, BNP Paribas credit strategists say in a note. Issuers within services sectors, however, such as healthcare and cruise companies, have lower foreign sales and are better placed to avoid the negative impacts of tariffs, the strategists say. (miriam.mukuru@wsj.com)

1014 ET - Hydro One's rich valuation keeps BofA Securities bearish on the stock, despite praise for the Canadian power company. BofA reinstates coverage with an underperform call and C$44 price target, noting the current valuation premium based on expected 2026 EPS is 47% higher than the next-highest premium of the companies it covers. It says catalysts for any multiple expansion from here are further-dated than its 12-month price objective. Still, BofA argues Hydro One is well run and has among the strongest earnings and rate base growth visibility in the sector. Shares now down 0.6% at C$45.29. (robb.stewart@wsj.com)

0946 ET - U.S. natural gas futures start the week higher as another cold spell makes its way over much of the U.S., driving up expected heating demand. "While a combination of supportive weather, the largest storage deficits since 2022 and bullish technicals may offer short-term upside, resurgent production levels hitting fresh all-time highs over the weekend threaten medium-term weakness," EBW Analytics says in a note. Nymex natural gas is up 2.5% at $3.391/mmBtu. (anthony.harrup@wsj.com)

0857 ET - Oil futures start the week higher after three consecutive weeks of losses as the U.S. plans to place tariffs on all steel and aluminum imports while Chinese retaliatory tariffs on U.S. oil and gas go into effect. The steel and aluminum tariffs "are apparently supportive to oil, dollar, equities, etc.," Ritterbusch says in a note. "Geopolitical premium that had supported oil values across last year have now been replaced by a tariff premium that will remain elevated for at least another three weeks until a White House decision is made regarding hefty tariffs on Canada and Mexico that will directly impact the flow of crude into the U.S.," the firm adds. WTI is up 1.3% at $71.91 a barrel, and Brent is up 1.2% at $75.56 a barrel. (anthony.harrup@wsj.com)

0854 ET - Elliott Management hasn't made a hostile approach to the BP board and will seek a more "suggestivist" approach to get its ideas across, AJ Bell investment director Russ Mould writes. Elliott is reportedly seeking better shareholder value but it is hard to see how it can campaign for higher dividends or share buybacks, he writes. In 2024, BP delivered $5 billion in dividends and ran share buybacks worth $7.3 billion, he says. Elliott might want BP to refocus its strategy on oil-and-gas production, better allocate capex, or shift its listing to the U.S., Mould says. Shares trade up 7.3% at 464.65 pence. (adam.whittaker@wsj.com)

0831 ET - Danish wind-turbine maker Vestas remains well-positioned to execute against a strong backlog, with margin guidance conservative for 2025, Deutsche Bank analyst John Kim writes. The market is pricing in quite a bit of risk into the Vestas share, which feels unjustified given its market position, onshore wind competitiveness, and continued growth in key areas, the bank says. That said, the company has battled issues within the service business, with recent regulation not positive for wind. "We recognize the issues but see more upside risk than downside at current levels." The bank lifts its target price to 150 Danish kroner from 145 kroner. It rates the stock buy. Shares trade 2.9% lower at 102.70 kroner. (dominic.chopping@wsj.com)

0830 ET - Maersk's fourth quarter showed strong performance across all divisions, driven by volume growth and high freight rates, but the outlook for container shipping remains uncertain in 2025, AlphaValue analyst Helene Coumes writes. The outlook depends on the reopening of the Red Sea, which will impact supply. Shorter routes that will become available when the route reopens, coupled with new vessel deliveries, should add total capacity of up to 4 million containers, Coumes adds. However, carriers can manage capacity through sailing at slower speeds and gradual scrapping of older vessels, which was low in 2024. On the demand side, Maersk is optimistic, anticipating volume growth of 4%, although higher U.S. tariffs could hit final demand and trade. Maersk shares trade 1.7% higher at 11,475 Danish kroner. (dominic.chopping@wsj.com)

0700 ET - Norsk Hydro has more than 20 sites in the U.S., as well as plants in Mexico and Canada that could be affected by U.S. tariffs on steel and aluminum imports, a spokesman for the company said. Though the company allocates most of its annual Norwegian aluminum production to the European market, it has close to 6,000 employees in the U.S. The aluminum and renewable-energy company says it is preparing for different scenarios but that it is still too early to say how tariffs would affect its operations in the long term. President Trump announced plans to introduce 25% tariffs on imports of steel and aluminum on every nation exporting the metals to the U.S. Norsk Hydro shares trade 0.2% lower at 67.68 Norwegian kroner. (pierre.bertrand@wsj.com)

0417 ET - Oil prices edge higher in early trade as the market digests U.S. President Trump's latest tariff threats. Brent crude and WTI are both up 0.7% to $75.18 and $71.50 a barrel, respectively, following a series of weekly losses. Trump plans to impose a 25% tariff on steel and aluminum imports on Monday and make an announcement about reciprocal tariffs for all trading partners on Tuesday or Wednesday. Meanwhile, China's counter tariffs on a range of American products are due to take effect on Monday. "Markets are weighing whether these moves are bargaining tactics or a structural shift in trade policy," Saxo analysts say in a note. Oil futures closed lower last week amid concerns that trade tariffs could hurt global economic growth and damp demand for crude. (giulia.petroni@wsj.com)

0408 ET - Innovent Biologics' near-term stock performance may depend on the approval and sales of its potential blockbuster drug Mazdutide in 1H2025, according to Deutsche Bank Research analyst Cyrus Ng in a commentary. The biotech company's share price has rebounded 14% since January 25, outperforming its peers' average of 4.9% during the same period, Ng says. However, revenue growth slowed in Q4 compared to the previous quarter, although 2024 product sales remain in line with expectations, the analyst notes. Ng maintains a buy rating and a target price of HK$49.00. Shares were last up 0.3% at HK$36.35. (tracy.qu@wsj.com)

0344 ET - Elliott Management could force BP to reorganize its business and make changes to its board after it was reported the hedge fund has built a stake in the British energy giant, Jefferies analysts Giacomo Romeo and Kai Ye Loh write. Elliott could look to remove BP Chairman Helge Lund at the next AGM in late April or early May, the analysts write. Increasing shareholder returns by maximizing free-cash-flow generation via reduced capex and increased divestments would be a key goal, they add. It may also seek to refocus BP's strategy on traditional oil and gas activities and reduce exposure to low-carbon assets, they add. Shares trade up 7.4% at 465 pence. This is BP's best one-day rise since summer 2023. (adam.whittaker@wsj.com)

0148 ET - Japan's Nikkei Stock Average closed flat at 38801.17, as gains in chemical and select electronics stocks helped offset losses in trading houses. Murata Manufacturing rose 5.0%, while Mitsui & Co. dropped 1.8%. Mitsubishi Chemical Group gained 2.0% after announcing its plan to sell its drug unit for $3.37 billion. The broader market index, Topix, fell 0.2% to 2733.01. Investors were focused on President Trump's tariff plans as well as domestic earnings. The 10-year Japanese government bond yield rose 1.5 basis points to 1.315%. USD/JPY is at 151.81, compared with 151.41 late Friday in New York. (kosaku.narioka@wsj.com; @kosakunarioka)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250210007029:0/)
