---
title: "Cohen & Steers Strengthens ETF Leadership with Griffin Frank and Alexander Berg"
date: "2025-02-11 22:00:00"
summary: "Cohen &amp; Steers Strengthens ETF Leadership with Griffin Frank and Alexander BergPR NewswireNEW YORK, Feb. 11, 2025NEW YORK, Feb. 11, 2025 /PRNewswire/ — Cohen &amp; Steers, Inc. is introducing Griffin Frank as Head of ETF Capital Markets and Alexander Berg as Head of ETF Sales, underscoring the firm's strategic expansion..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Cohen & Steers Strengthens ETF Leadership with Griffin Frank and Alexander Berg

PR Newswire

NEW YORK, Feb. 11, 2025

NEW YORK, Feb. 11, 2025 /PRNewswire/ — Cohen & Steers, Inc. is introducing Griffin Frank as Head of ETF Capital Markets and Alexander Berg as Head of ETF Sales, underscoring the firm's strategic expansion into the ETF marketplace. These appointments follow the firm's launch of three fully transparent Active ETFs focused on real estate, preferred securities, and natural resource equities.

Griffin Frank brings over 23 years of industry experience to his new role, where he will oversee the firm's ETF Capital Markets function and lead the liquidity strategy for Cohen & Steers' Active ETF platform. Mr. Frank most recently served as Vice President at T. Rowe Price Group in the firm's ETF capital markets division, which he rejoined in 2019. Earlier in his career, he was a trading analyst at Vanguard and began his career at T. Rowe Price. He reports to Matthew Karcic, Head of Trading.

Alexander Berg joins Cohen & Steers with more than 16 years of ETF sales experience and will be responsible for leading the development and expansion of the firm's Active ETF platform. Prior to joining Cohen & Steers, Mr. Berg was Vice President and Senior National Account Manager at State Street Global Advisors, where he held various ETF sales roles since 2008. He reports to Dan Noonan, Head of the Wealth Management Consulting Group, and will work closely with the firm's leadership team to expand its ETF offering.

Joseph Harvey, Chief Executive Officer, said:

"The launch of Active ETFs emphasizes our firm's commitment to expanding access to our actively managed listed real assets and alternative income strategies. We are excited to introduce Griffin Frank and Alexander Berg, who will play key roles in expanding our Active ETFs strategy and further enhancing our client service capabilities."

About Cohen & Steers. Cohen & Steers is a leading global investment manager specializing in real assets and alternative income, including listed and private real estate, preferred securities, infrastructure, resource equities, commodities, as well as multi-strategy solutions. Founded in 1986, the firm is headquartered in New York City, with offices in London, Dublin, Hong Kong, Tokyo and Singapore.

Please consider the investment objectives, risks, charges and expenses of any Cohen & Steers fund carefully before investing. A summary prospectus and prospectus containing this and other information may be obtained, free of charge, by visiting cohenandsteers.com or by calling (866) 737-6370. Please read the summary prospectus and prospectus carefully before investing.

Investing involves risk, including entire loss of capital invested. There can be no assurance that the investment strategy will meet its investment objectives.

Cohen & Steers Capital Management, Inc. (Cohen & Steers) is a U.S. registered investment advisory firm that provides investment management services to corporate retirement, public and union retirement plans, endowments, foundations and mutual funds. The Cohen & Steers ETFs are distributed by Foreside Fund Services, LLC. Foreside Fund Services, LLC is not affiliated with Cohen & Steers.

Website: https://www.cohenandsteers.com

Symbols: NYSE: CNS   
 NYSE Arca: CSRE, CSPF, CSNR

View original content:https://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/cohen--steers-strengthens-etf-leadership-with-griffin-frank-and-alexander-berg-302373024.html

SOURCE Cohen & Steers, Inc.

/CONTACT: Robert Klemens, Vice President, Communications, Cohen & Steers, media@cohenandsteers.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250211005739:0/)
