---
title: "News Highlights: Top Global Markets News of the Day - Monday at 11 PM ET"
date: "2025-02-11 12:00:00"
summary: "Nasdaq Leads U.S. Stocks HigherU.S. stocks rose Monday as investors shrugged off the risk that President Trump's planned steel and aluminum tariffs could ignite a trade war.China's Cabinet Pledges to Boost Spending, Attract Foreign InvestmentThe State Council said it will work to increase residents' incomes, promote sustainable income growth and..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

**Nasdaq Leads U.S. Stocks Higher**

U.S. stocks rose Monday as investors shrugged off the risk that President Trump's planned steel and aluminum tariffs could ignite a trade war.

**China's Cabinet Pledges to Boost Spending, Attract Foreign Investment**

The State Council said it will work to increase residents' incomes, promote sustainable income growth and expand property-related income channels, all of which are aimed at stimulating domestic consumption.

**South Korean State Think Tank Cuts 2025 Growth Forecast, Flags U.S. Tariff Risk**

The Korea Development Institute now forecasts South Korea's gross domestic product growth at 1.6% in 2025, largely due to deteriorating global trade conditions since Trump took office in the U.S.

**Trump Imposes Global 25% Steel, Aluminum Tariffs**

The levies, which take effect March 4, are just the latest in a litany of tariff threats and impositions from the president in the first weeks of his second term.

**Trump's Conflicting Business Policies Sow Economic Uncertainty**

Companies are excited about the administration's focus on fossil fuels, lower taxes and deregulation. But confusion over tariffs, deportations, and federal cuts is getting in the way.

**Trump Fires Another Tariff Salvo. When the Market Will Start to Care.**

President Donald Trump said over the weekend he plans to levy 25% tariffs on steel and aluminum imports.

**Republicans Bank on Growth Boom to Claim Budget Math Adds Up**

The approach is crucial to convincing GOP colleagues-and voters-that Trump's plans won't make U.S. finances worse.

**For CEOs and Bankers, the Trump Euphoria Is Fading Fast**

The deals market had its quietest January in a decade, curtailed by the uncertainty delivered in the president's first weeks.

**France Taps Nuclear Power in Race for AI Supremacy**

Macron aims to dedicate a gigawatt of nuclear power to create one of the world's largest AI-computing facilities.

**Tech Firms Want to Upend the Pentagon. The Old Defense Guard Has Lessons for Them.**

Upstart defense contractors such as Palantir are on the rise. In the future, though, they may not be immune to the problems that have burned their legacy peers.

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250210012681:0/)
