---
title: "Developer Todd Michael Glaser Moves in on a $105 Million Property in Miami Beach — WSJ"
date: "2025-02-08 02:50:00"
summary: "By E.B. SolomontBe the first to know about the biggest and best luxury home sales and listings by signing up for our Mansion Deals email alert.Developer Todd Michael Glaser and partners are in contract to pay $105 million for a waterfront property in Miami Beach, Fla., according to people familiar..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By E.B. Solomont

Be the first to know about the biggest and best luxury home sales and listings by signing up for our Mansion Deals email alert.

Developer Todd Michael Glaser and partners are in contract to pay $105 million for a waterfront property in Miami Beach, Fla., according to people familiar with the deal. If it closes, the deal will be one of the most expensive residential transactions in Miami-Dade County.

The seller is Sonny Kahn, a fellow real-estate developer and co-founder of Miami-based Crescent Heights, which develops luxury apartments, office and retail. He and his wife, Suzanne Passi Kahn, paid about $2.5 million for the 2.34-acre property in the early 1990s, records show. The Kahns didn't respond to a request for comment.

Located on a coveted stretch of North Bay Road, the property contains a roughly 19,200-square-foot mansion with eight bedrooms as well as an outdoor pool, poolhouse and tennis court, according to Nelson Gonzalez of Berkshire Hathaway HomeServices EWM Realty, who is working with Glaser. Kahn renovated the house, originally built in the 1930s, Gonzalez said. Glaser and his partners plan to either flip or redevelop the property, which can accommodate a 50,000-square-foot house. They would list a newly built mansion for approximately $250 million, Gonzalez said.

The property is roughly 500 feet deep with about 290 feet of frontage on Biscayne Bay, and Gonzalez said he doesn't know of a larger single property in Miami Beach. "It's a unicorn of a lot," he said. The $105 million purchase price is warranted by the size of the property, he said, particularly on a stretch of North Bay Road that is home to celebrities and titans of industry.

Over the past few years, North Bay Road has seen a slew of big-ticket deals. In October, soccer star David Beckham paid $72.25 million for a newly built home on North Bay Road, about 1.5 miles from the Kahn property, records show. Media mogul Barry Diller paid $45 million for a roughly 1.5-acre lot adjacent to the Kahn property last year, records show. In January, entrepreneur Anand Khubani paid $40 million for a spec house on the other side of the Kahn property.

The current record in Miami-Dade County was set in 2022, when hedge-fund billionaire Ken Griffin paid $106.875 million for a waterfront estate in the Coconut Grove area.

Glaser is a prolific dealmaker in the luxury market. In Palm Beach, he paid $85 million for an estate on Tarpon Island in 2021, expanded and renovated the house on it, then sold it for $150 million last year.

Write to E.B. Solomont at eb.solomont@wsj.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250207009095:0/)
