---
title: "2-year Treasury yield ends at highest in 2 weeks after jobs-data revisions"
date: "2025-02-08 04:49:00"
summary: "By Vivien Lou ChenYields on U.S. government debt jumped on Friday, but finished mixed for the week, after January's nonfarm-payrolls data included upward revisions for prior months that showed the labor market was in solid shape.What happenedThe yield on the 2-year Treasury BX:TMUBMUSD02Y rose 7.1 basis points to 4.277%, from..."
categories:
  - "MarketWatch"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "MarketWatch"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Vivien Lou Chen

Yields on U.S. government debt jumped on Friday, but finished mixed for the week, after January's nonfarm-payrolls data included upward revisions for prior months that showed the labor market was in solid shape.

What happened

* The yield on the 2-year Treasury BX:TMUBMUSD02Y rose 7.1 basis points to 4.277%, from around 4.206% on Thursday. Friday's closing level was the highest since Jan. 23, according to Dow Jones Market Data. For the week, the yield finished up by 4.2 basis points.
* The yield on the 10-year Treasury BX:TMUBMUSD10Y jumped 4.6 basis points to 4.483%, from 4.437% on Thursday. For the week, the yield fell 8.3 basis points.
* The yield on the 30-year Treasury BX:TMUBMUSD30Y rose 4.2 basis points to 4.688%, from 4.646% on Thursday. For the week, the yield fell 12.4 basis points. That was the biggest weekly decline since the period that ended on Nov. 29.
* Ten- and 30-year yields still finished Friday's session at their third-lowest closing levels of 2025.

What drove markets

January's nonfarm-payrolls report was regarded by investors and analysts as a solid one despite showing that the U.S. added 143,000 jobs, which was below the 169,000 gain that had been expected by economists polled by the Wall Street Journal.

The unemployment rate dropped to 4% from 4.1% previously, and the prior two months' worth of data were revised upward by a total of 100,000 for December and November. In addition, average hourly earnings jumped by 0.5%, or more than expected.

"This morning's report may be considered a Goldilocks report - not too hot and not too cold," said Jeffrey Roach, chief economist for LPL Financial in Charlotte, N.C. "In general, labor demand last year was softer than originally reported, but that trend temporarily reversed in November and December. An unemployment rate at 4% is considered very low, giving the Fed reason to keep fed funds unchanged in the near term."

Fed-funds futures traders saw a 91.5% chance of no action being taken by the Federal Reserve in March, up from 84% a day ago, according to the CME FedWatch Tool. The likelihood of a quarter-point rate cut by next month dropped to 8.5% from 16% on Thursday.

In other data released on Friday, the University of Michigan's gauge of consumer sentiment fell sharply in a preliminary February reading as inflation expectations jumped.

Separately, President Donald Trump confirmed his intention to announce reciprocal tariffs next week as part of a plan to match tariffs that other countries impose on U.S. imports.

-Vivien Lou Chen

This content was created by MarketWatch, which is operated by Dow Jones & Co. MarketWatch is published independently from Dow Jones Newswires and The Wall Street Journal.

[MarketWatch](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_SN20250207007108:0/)
