---
title: "Trump Tells U.S. Treasury to Stop Minting Pennies — WSJ"
date: "2025-02-10 21:19:00"
summary: "By Fabiana Negrin OchoaPresident Trump said he has instructed the U.S. Treasury to stop producing new pennies, calling the minting of the coin a waste of money.\"For far too long the United States has minted pennies which literally cost us more than 2 cents,\" Trump said in a post on..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Fabiana Negrin Ochoa

President Trump said he has instructed the U.S. Treasury to stop producing new pennies, calling the minting of the coin a waste of money.

"For far too long the United States has minted pennies which literally cost us more than 2 cents," Trump said in a post on Truth Social. "Let's rip the waste out of our great nations budget, even if it's a penny at a time."

The move revives a longstanding debate about getting rid of the penny, a proposal that has been tabled in Congress numerous times before. Some argue that the cost savings would be worth it, pointing to Canada, which stopped producing pennies in 2012, as an example.

Others say abolishing the coin would have consequences such as increasing consumer prices by rounding transactions up.

While the president ultimately has the authority to decide which coins the Treasury mints, one stumbling block could be how merchants manage change, according to TD Cowen analyst Jaret Seiberg.

Merchants could face the choice of either having to round down to the nearest five cent increment or find creative ways to get ahold of a dwindling supply of available pennies, Seiberg said.

In the event of the Treasury removing the penny from circulation, Congress would likely move quickly to legislate to enable merchants to round transactions to the nearest nickel.

Trump's move comes as the White House's Department of Government Efficiency, spearheaded by Elon Musk, says it has identified and cut more than $1 billion in spending.

DOGE has been scrutinizing multiple federal programs to identify cost savings.

In a post on Musk's X social-media platform in January, DOGE said the penny "cost U.S. taxpayers over $179 million in FY2023."

According to a report from the Department of the Treasury and the U.S. Mint, the penny's unit cost increased by about 13% in fiscal 2023, remaining above face value for the 18th consecutive fiscal year. Factors affecting production include higher prices of the metals used to mint the coins.

Write to Fabiana Negrin Ochoa at fabiana.negrinochoa@wsj.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250210005118:0/)
