---
title: "Day 23 in Trump World: A Roundup — WSJ"
date: "2025-02-12 02:45:00"
summary: "By Nicholas Hatcher and Tali ArbelPresident Trump is moving at lightning speed in his second term to execute his MAGA agenda. Here is a look at his notable actions and statements on Tuesday, Feb. 11.Trump started his day with a barrage of posts on Truth Social, criticizing New York and..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Nicholas Hatcher and Tali Arbel

President Trump is moving at lightning speed in his second term to execute his MAGA agenda. Here is a look at his notable actions and statements on Tuesday, Feb. 11.

* Trump started his day with a barrage of posts on Truth Social, criticizing New York and California, and praising the cuts made by the Department of Government Efficiency. In another post, Trump said he has ordered EPA Administrator Lee Zeldin to return to his previous administration's environmental standards for light bulbs and water "pertaining to SINKS, SHOWERS, TOILETS, WASHING MACHINES, DISHWASHERS, etc." He also reiterated his desire to eliminate the Federal Emergency Management Agency, saying it is under investigation.
* Trump tapped Terry Cole, a veteran of the Drug Enforcement Administration, as his nominee to run that agency. Chad Chronister, a Florida county sheriff and Trump's previous pick to run the DEA, withdrew in early December.
* Trump said he is sending Treasury Secretary Scott Bessent to Ukraine to meet with President Volodymyr Zelensky. "This War MUST and WILL END SOON -- Too much Death and Destruction," he wrote on Truth Social. "The U.S. has spent BILLIONS of Dollars Globally, with little to show." Read more on Trump's willingness to supply weapons to Ukraine in exchange for access to the country's mineral resources.
* King Abdullah II of Jordan met with Trump at the White House. The president is trying to sell Jordan on his plan for the country and Egypt to accept Palestinians from Gaza as part of a U.S. takeover. "There's nothing to buy," Trump said of Gaza. "We're going to take it, we're going to hold it, we're going to cherish it." King Abdullah said he will work with Trump to bring peace to the region and that Jordan along with other Arab and Muslim countries will propose a united position to Trump.
* Trump will sign executive orders in the afternoon.

Catch up: What Trump said and did on Day 22.

This list will be regularly updated.

Write to Nicholas Hatcher at nicholas.hatcher@wsj.com and Tali Arbel at tali.arbel@wsj.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250211008726:0/)
