---
title: "News Highlights: Top Global Markets News of the Day - Thursday at 11 PM ET"
date: "2025-02-14 12:15:00"
summary: "S&amp;P 500 Rises; Producer Inflation Tops ForecastsU.S. stocks rose on Thursday after President Trump raised hopes of a resolution to the Ukraine war and then later put off a decision on additional tariffs on foreign goods.China's Central Bank Signals Policy Adjustments Amid Rising Global RisksThe People's Bank of China said..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

**S&P 500 Rises; Producer Inflation Tops Forecasts**

U.S. stocks rose on Thursday after President Trump raised hopes of a resolution to the Ukraine war and then later put off a decision on additional tariffs on foreign goods.

**China's Central Bank Signals Policy Adjustments Amid Rising Global Risks**

The People's Bank of China said it will adjust the pace and intensity of its policymaking based on economic and financial conditions at home and abroad.

**Trump Orders Federal Agencies to Study Reciprocal Tariffs**

The president's memo asks agencies for more details on how to adjust U.S. tariffs to reflect the duties imposed by other nations.

**White House Targets Canada's Digital Tax in Reciprocal Tariff Plan**

The White House said Canada, along with France, both levy digital taxes, and they cost U.S. firms $2 billion a year.

**Wholesale Inflation Sped Up in January With 0.4% Monthly Gain in PPI**

The consensus estimate was for a 0.2% rise in the producer price index.

**Trump Layoffs Hit Federal Workers With Less Than a Year on Job**

The latest cuts focus on roughly 200,000 employees classified as probationary workers, including staffers at the Forest Service and the Energy Department.

**Americans' Eager Holiday Shopping Didn't Bring a Surge in Debt**

the number of consumers struggling to pay off their credit-card bills remains elevated.

**U.S. Jobless Claims Declined Last Week**

The number of Americans who filed for new jobless benefits fell to 213,000. Economists polled by The Wall Street Journal had been forecasting 214,000 initial claims.

**Trump Picks Brian Quintenz to Be CFTC Chairman**

Quintenz, a Republican, served as a CFTC commissioner between 2017 and 2021.

**Australian Central Bank's Rate Call Finely Balanced**

The outcome of next week's Reserve Bank of Australia policy meeting is more finely balanced than what is implied by pricing in money markets, according to a former senior manager at the central bank.

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250213018655:0-news-highlights-top-global-markets-news-of-the-day-thursday-at-11-pm-et/)
