---
title: "Ford Could Face Layoffs If Inflation Reduction Act is Repealed — Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-12 00:10:00"
summary: "1110 ET - Ford could face layoffs if Trump gets rid of certain legislation that Biden passed to support electric vehicle production. CEO Jim Farley said he is concerned about Trump repealing parts of the Inflation Reduction Act, which incentivized various green-energy efforts including electric vehicle production. Ford has already..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

1110 ET - Ford could face layoffs if Trump gets rid of certain legislation that Biden passed to support electric vehicle production. CEO Jim Farley said he is concerned about Trump repealing parts of the Inflation Reduction Act, which incentivized various green-energy efforts including electric vehicle production. Ford has already sunk capital into initiatives that would benefit from the IRA, and expects it would have to cut jobs at plants across the country if large parts of the IRA is repealed. Farley said he is visiting D.C. on Wednesday for the second time in three weeks to try to highlight how much policy uncertainty is weighing on the auto industry. (katherine.hamilton@wsj.com)

1108 ET - Tariffs are bringing "cost and chaos" to Ford in the immediate term, Chief Executive Jim Farley said during a call. Tariffs on vehicles and components Ford ships into the U.S. from Mexico and Canada would be devastating. Meanwhile, competitors in South Korea, Japan and Europe, which bring in millions of vehicles into the U.S., would experience significant windfall from not being subject to tariffs, Farley said. Ford gets about 90% of its steel domestically and isn't worried about aluminium duties, but tariffs could drive up the market price for those goods. (katherine.hamilton@wsj.com)

1050 ET - Questioning Fed Chair Jerome Powell, the early focus of Democratic senators Elizabeth Warren and Catherine Cortez Masto is bank regulation. Warren and Cortez Masto focus many of their questions on whether there is a regulatory vacuum as the Trump administration aims to reduce the role of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. (matt.grossman@wsj.com; @mattgrossman)

1043 ET - In senate testimony Fed Chair Jerome Powell outlines the federal payments system that has been the center of controversy amid Trump administration efforts to scrutinize its operations. Powell explains that the role of the Treasury is to establish which payments should be made when and to confirm that federal payments comply with agency needs and all legal requirements. As fiscal agent, the Fed has a role in executing federal payments. Asked if he believes the system remains safe today, Powell says that he believes it is. (matt.grossman@wsj.com, @mattgrossman)

1031 ET - Responding to a question from Republican Senator Tim Scott, Fed Chair Jerome Powell says that he will work with Congress and with colleagues at the Fed to examine ways to address debanking. "I'm happy to make that commitment," Powell says. The question was preceded by remarks from Scott about complaints that the Fed has treated financial institutions involved in cryptocurrency unfairly. (matt.grossman@wsj.com; @mattgrossman)

0945 ET - Bank of Nova Scotia's economics team says it now anticipates one more rate cut from the Bank of Canada, to account for uncertainty created by trade policy from President Trump. Chief economist Jean-Francois Perrault says Scotiabank now anticipates weaker growth for Canada in 2025, despite a strong end to last year and strong start in January. This reflects "a more pronounced increase in uncertainty, in line with volatility we witnessed in recent weeks that is likely to persist for some time," he says in an updated forecast. One more quarter-point cut, to 2.75%, would bring rates to the midpoint of the BOC's estimated range for neutral--or the level that neither stimulates nor contracts from growth. (paul.vieira@wsj.com, @paulvieira)

0939 ET - Coca-Cola CEO James Quincey says on a call with analysts that he's "focusing on innovation that prioritizes bigger and bolder bets," all of which serve specific purposes. This strategy led to a collaboration between Coca-Cola and Oreo, the objective of which was to create short-term buzz and resulted in limited-time drink and cookie offerings, he says. "In other instances, we innovate for lasting impact," Quincey adds. This was the case in expanding the company's portfolio of teas, sparkling waters and juices, which Quincey says are driving revenue growth. Shares rise 4% in early trading. (connor.hart@wsj.com)

0927 ET - With President Trump confirming 25% tariffs on steel and aluminum imports, increased demand is now expected for these metals short-term--with buyers attempting to stockpile ahead of the tariff implementation, says HSBC Global Research in a note. "The increase in prices likely reflects some expectation of a front-loading of inventories ahead of the tariffs actually coming into effect," says the firm. "This essentially means higher near-term demand, as traders and firms look to secure supplies ahead of what is essentially an increase in costs." The metal tariffs from Trump's first term provides some clues on how they may impact markets, the firm says, speculating that with higher prices may come reduced demand and in turn reduced manufacturing employment. (kirk.maltais@wsj.com)

0924 ET - Inflation cooled down slightly in Brazil last month, but not enough to relief pressure on the central bank. Brazil's 12-month IPCA consumer price index was 4.6% in January, compared to 4.8% in December, the country's statistics agency IBGE says. The central bank's target is 3%, with a tolerance range of 1.5 percentage point. "The inflationary pressures remain strong, particularly among services, and goods inflation is normalizing upwards from low-levels," Goldman Sachs' Alberto Ramos writes. The central bank will need to remain hawkish, he says. The central bank's policy rate is at 13.25% and widely expected to keep rising. (paulo.trevisani@wsj.com; @ptrevisani)

0917 ET - Consumers are still buying beverages, even if they have to pay more. Coca-Cola in 4Q notched a 9% increase in price/mix--a metric that includes prices as well as product mix, packaging and size. The majority of the increase came from higher prices, CFO John Murphy says on a call with analysts, "split somewhat evenly between normal pricing actions across our markets and intense inflationary pricing in a handful of markets experiencing currency devaluations." Favorable mix accounted for 1% of the 9% increase, he adds. Shares gain 4.2% in premarket trading after Coca-Cola posts higher-than-expected revenue and profit in the recent quarter. (connor.hart@wsj.com)

0916 ET - Crude futures are rising for a third consecutive session, supported by reports of lower Russian production and tensions between Israel and Hamas over their cease-fire agreement. The implications of trade tariffs remain an issue with the U.S. imposing 25% duties on all steel and aluminum imports. "The focus on reduced production rates in Russia, and a more optimistic tone in U.S. and other developed market indices helped crude break the downtrend," Pepperstone's Chris Weston says in a note. A mix of short covering and organic buying suggests crude had reached a near-term low, he adds. Benchmarks WTI rises 1.4% to $73.34 a barrel and Brent is up 1.5% at $77.01 a barrel. (anthony.harrup@wsj.com)

0855 ET - WK Kellogg rise 4% premarket after the cereal giant's adjusted profit tops analyst estimates, outweighing disappointing sales. The maker of Frosted Flakes and Froot Loops posted sales of $640M, down nearly 2% from year-ago levels, in part reflecting what Kellogg CEO Gary Pilnick calls an "ongoing challenging business environment." The sales decline also comes as consumers reject higher cereal prices. Kellogg says 4Q sales volumes fell 6% as prices increased 4%. Kellogg posts adjusted earnings of 42 cents per share, ahead of the 25 cents analysts expected. (jesse.newman@wsj.com)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250211007280:0/)
