---
title: "Bessent Could Do This to Tame the Debt — if He Dares — Barron's"
date: "2025-02-08 10:30:00"
summary: "By Randall W. ForsythSeemingly less audacious than some of its other actions, the Trump administration wants to bring down the yield on 10-year Treasury securities. But that yield is a price set by the markets and is largely immune to government manipulation — though not entirely.The 10-year yield is both..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Randall W. Forsyth

Seemingly less audacious than some of its other actions, the Trump administration wants to bring down the yield on 10-year Treasury securities. But that yield is a price set by the markets and is largely immune to government manipulation — though not entirely.

The 10-year yield is both the most important price in the capital markets and a crucial cost to the federal government. Interest on government debt is the fastest rising expense in the federal budget, surpassing military spending and Medicare. So, restraining its rise is key to the administration's other policy goals.

Treasury Secretary Scott Bessent contends his "3-3-3" economic plan of maintaining growth, reducing the budget deficit — featuring spending cuts from the Department of Government Efficiency, or DOGE — and boosting oil production will reduce long-term interest rates.

That is open to question. Another tool, financial repression — the artificial suppression of interest rates below market levels — has been used in the past by the U.S. government to cap its borrowing costs. It is not on the agenda now, but investors should become familiar with it, given Trump's breaks with precedent early in his second term.

In highlighting the aim to bring down interest rates, Bessent insisted that the president was not trying to pressure the Federal Reserve to reduce its short-term policy rate. "He and I are focused on the 10-year Treasury," Bessent said in an interview on Fox Business on Wednesday.

The 10-year Treasury yield is a key determinant of private borrowing costs, from home mortgages to corporate bond yields, which in turn affects the valuation of riskier investments, including common stocks. Finally, the cost of capital is a key constraint on the economy's growth.

But governmental bodies have limited and only indirect impacts on long-term rates. These are set by the markets' expectations of future short-term rates plus a so-called term premium to compensate investors for the risk of lengthier commitments.

Government officials have frequently bristled at their limited influence over long-term interest rates. James Carville, former president Bill Clinton's political adviser, famously observed, "I used to think that if there was reincarnation, I wanted to come back as the president or the pope or as a .400 baseball hitter. But now I would want to come back as the bond market. You can intimidate everybody."

Instead of intimidation, Bessent's 3-3-3 plan aims for generating 3% real gross-domestic-product growth, cutting the deficit to 3% of GDP (from over 6% currently), and boosting U.S. oil production by three million barrels a day. The latter would be an increase over current output of about 13.5 million barrels a day, which already makes the U.S. the world's largest oil producer.

The administration sees a key role for lower energy prices in controlling inflation. Consumers' inflation expectations, and indeed their overall confidence, are importantly influenced by retail gasoline prices. "So if we can get gasoline back down, heating oil back down, then those consumers not only will be saving money, but their optimism for the future will," he said, help them rebuild from the recent years of high inflation.

The administration's "goal in keeping long rates low is reliant on calming inflation and mostly via lower energy prices," Peter Boockvar, chief investment officer at Bleakley Financial Group, wrote. But oil companies, he noted, have preferred returning capital to shareholders over aggressively boosting production at current prices.

Bessent contended in a Bloomberg interview on Thursday that DOGE efforts will bring about spending reductions that, along with deregulation, will produce noninflationary growth that will shrink the deficit.

But other analysts see interest expenses compounding under current budget projections. The nonpartisan Committee for a Responsible Federal Budget just this past week said a budget resolution being considered by the House of Representatives' leadership would double the rate of increase in federal debt over the next decade, mainly because interest payments would "explode." Interest would rise to 4.7% of GDP by 2025, far above the previous peak of 3.2%. Interest on the federal debt is soaring as old borrowings at near-zero interest rates come due and have to be refinanced at more normal yields in the 4% range.

The U.S. has resorted in the past to financial repression to control interest expenses. During World War II and until 1951, the Fed held Treasury yields under 2.5% by buying bonds, similar to the quantitative easing policies employed in this century. Back then, mortgages backed by the Department of Veterans Affairs and the Federal Housing Administration were also pegged at 4%.

Other interest rates were controlled in the postwar era, including on bank deposits. With strong economic growth and various restraints on rates, the government's debt/GDP ratio was steadily whittled down, from over 100% after World War II, to just 23% by 1974.

What forms of financial repression could be imposed today? Interest rates were deregulated by the 1980s. But on Wednesday, Senators Bernie Sanders (D., Vt.) and Josh Hawley (R., Mo.), from opposite ends of the political spectrum, introduced legislation to cap credit-card interest rates at 10%. Higher-than-anticipated inflation could also boost tax revenue and help reduce the deficit — to the detriment of bond investors.

No one knows what new measures to restrain burgeoning interest costs may be contrived. Compared with the notion of taking over sovereign territory — from Greenland to the Panama Canal to Gaza, while making Canada the 51(st) state — the idea of regulating interest rates seems relatively modest. But whether any government, especially the world's most indebted one, can make the market bend to its will, is another question.

Write to Randall W. Forsyth at randall.forsyth@barrons.com

To subscribe to Barron's, visit http://www.barrons.com/subscribe

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250206015639:0/)
