---
title: "SGH Profit More Than Doubles, Reaffirms Annual Guidance"
date: "2025-02-11 04:48:00"
summary: "(20:31 GMT) *SGH 1H Net Profit A$523.5 Million, More Than Doubles on Year(20:32 GMT) *SGH 1H Revenue From Continuing Operations A$5.51 Billion, Up 2.2% on Year(20:32 GMT) *SGH 1H Underlying Net Profit A$505.4 Million, Up 17% on Year(20:33 GMT) *SGH Interim Dividend A$0.30/Security(20:33 GMT) *SGH Reaffirms Guidance for High Single-Digit..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

**(20:31 GMT)** \*SGH 1H Net Profit A$523.5 Million, More Than Doubles on Year  
**(20:32 GMT)** \*SGH 1H Revenue From Continuing Operations A$5.51 Billion, Up 2.2% on Year  
**(20:32 GMT)** \*SGH 1H Underlying Net Profit A$505.4 Million, Up 17% on Year  
**(20:33 GMT)** \*SGH Interim Dividend A$0.30/Security  
**(20:33 GMT)** \*SGH Reaffirms Guidance for High Single-Digit Ebit Growth in FY 2025  
**(20:34 GMT)** \*SGH 1H Industrial Services Businesses Ebit of A$766 Million, Up 10%  
**(20:34 GMT)** \*SGH 1H WesTrac Ebit of A$352 Million, Up 5%  
**(20:34 GMT)** \*SGH 1H Boral Ebit of A$259 Million, Up 29%  
**(20:35 GMT)** \*SGH 1H Operating Cash Flow of A$821 Million, Up 15%  
**(20:35 GMT)** \*SGH 1H Ebit A$843 Million, Up 10%  
**(20:48 GMT)** SGH Profit More Than Doubles, Reaffirms Annual Guidance

By Rhiannon Hoyle

Australian industrial conglomerate SGH said it first-half net profit more than doubled, helped by higher earnings from mining equipment business WesTrac and the ongoing turnaround of its construction materials arm.

SGH reported a net profit of 523.5 million Australian dollars (US$328.4 million) in the six months through December. That compared to a profit of A$188.9 million a year ago, when its bottom line was weighed by nearly A$250 million in one-time items.

Market expectations were for a net profit of A$482.7 million, according to a consensus estimate by Visible Alpha.

SGH said its underlying net profit rose by 17% to A$505.4 million, reflecting higher earnings from industrial services and WesTrac. It will pay an interim dividend of 30 Australian cents a share, up from 23 Australian cents a year ago.

The company reported first-half earnings before interest and taxes, or Ebit, of A$843 million, up 10% year over year. It reaffirmed expectations for high single-digit Ebit growth in fiscal 2025. It recorded a 20% increase in Ebit last fiscal year, to A$1.42 billion.

SGH has been sharpening its focus on three sectors--mining production, infrastructure and construction, and transitional energy--which it expects to benefit from macro tailwinds in the long term.

"We continue to see solid customer demand across our core sector exposures of Industrials and Energy," said Chief Executive Ryan Stokes.

WesTrac increased revenue by 8% on the back of growth in capital sales and services, although its Ebit margin fell marginally to 11.1% in the half-year period, SGH said. Construction materials company Boral recorded a further improvement in margins despite lower sales volumes in residential construction and road building, SGH said.

SGH took control of Boral in fiscal 2022 and completed the acquisition of outstanding shares in the business last July.

"I am particularly pleased with their continued progress on the performance journey to achieve mid-teen Ebit margins," Stokes said of Boral.

Write to Rhiannon Hoyle at rhiannon.hoyle@wsj.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250210009061:0/)
