---
title: "News Highlights: Top Global Markets News of the Day - Wednesday at 3 PM ET"
date: "2025-02-13 04:00:00"
summary: "Inflation Heated Up in January, Freezing the FedConsumer prices rose 3%, extending a recent pattern of increases at the start of the year that likely derails the prospect for Federal Reserve rate cuts anytime soon.BOE's Greene Says Key Rate Must Remain Restrictive to Tame InflationSupply constraints rather than soft demand..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

**Inflation Heated Up in January, Freezing the Fed**

Consumer prices rose 3%, extending a recent pattern of increases at the start of the year that likely derails the prospect for Federal Reserve rate cuts anytime soon.

**BOE's Greene Says Key Rate Must Remain Restrictive to Tame Inflation**

Supply constraints rather than soft demand caused recent weakness in the U.K. economy, suggesting to BOE member Megan Greene that borrowing costs will have to stay restrictive to tame inflation.

**Trump Calls India a Tariff King, a Title Modi Wants to Shed**

With tariffs on imports averaging 14%, India is especially vulnerable to the reciprocal levies Trump says he will impose on some countries.

**Canadian Firms Defer Spending as Tariff Threat Looms, Weighing on Broader Economy**

A Bank of Canada survey in December indicated firms like Wellmaster are downgrading their sales outlooks, and scrapping investment and hiring plans amid Trump's policies.

**Dow, S&P 500 Fall After Inflation Hits 3%**

S&P 500, Nasdaq-100 and Dow industrials declined after investors were rattled by the first inflation reading of 2025.

**OPEC Sticks to Oil-Demand View, Flags U.S. Trade Policy Risks**

The cartel stuck to its oil-demand forecast after reaffirming plans to gradually hike output from April, but said Trump's trade policy was injecting a dose of uncertainty into markets.

**Bank of Canada Cut Rates to Shield Economy From Possible Trade Fallout, Minutes Say**

A need to fuel faster growth and shield the economy from U.S. trade-policy uncertainty led senior Bank of Canada officials to agree on a quarter-point rate cut last month, according to minutes summarizing central bank deliberations.

**U.S. Crude Oil Stockpiles Rise For Third Straight Week**

U.S. crude oil inventories increased for a third consecutive week while gasoline stocks declined for the first time in three months, according to data released by the U.S. Energy Information Administration.

**Why Tariffs Will Make Car Insurance Even More Expensive**

Costlier cars or auto parts can increase claims costs, which take time to filter through to car-insurance rates.

**House GOP Plan Envisions $4.5 Trillion in Tax Cuts**

The Senate is moving ahead with its own narrower plan focusing on border security.

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250212011592:0/)
