---
title: "Trump Opens Door for New Nippon Steel Deal to Move Forward — WSJ"
date: "2025-02-08 06:24:00"
summary: "By Annie Linskey and Bob TitaWASHINGTON — President Trump said he supported what he described as an emerging agreement that would allow Nippon Steel to invest in — but not fully own — U.S. Steel, potentially opening up a new path for the Japanese company to enter the American steel..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Annie Linskey and Bob Tita

WASHINGTON — President Trump said he supported what he described as an emerging agreement that would allow Nippon Steel to invest in — but not fully own — U.S. Steel, potentially opening up a new path for the Japanese company to enter the American steel market.

"They're doing it as an investment, no longer a purchase," Trump said at a White House press conference with Japanese Prime Minister Shigeru Ishiba. "I didn't want it purchased, but investment I love."

Trump said he would meet with Nippon Steel's leaders next week to discuss the deal.

The president campaigned on strengthening the U.S. steel manufacturing sector and had previously said he opposed Nippon Steel's $14.1 billion proposal to own the company.

Ishiba also addressed the deal during the news conference, saying that Japanese technology would be provided to U.S. Steel.

The details of the potential reworked agreement weren't immediately clear. Nippon Steel and U.S. Steel didn't immediately respond to requests for comment.

U.S. Steel Chief Executive David Burritt met with Trump on Thursday to discuss the deal. Nippon Steel Vice Chairman Takahiro Mori was in Washington last week to lobby lawmakers.

Nippon Steel had said previously that it wasn't interested in a joint venture because the structure limited the company's ability to deploy its full suite of proprietary technologies and management strategies. As part of its previous offer, Nippon Steel pledged to invest nearly $3 billion in U.S. Steel's plants, with most of the money going to the company's oldest steel mills near Pittsburgh and in Gary, Ind.

Before he left office, President Joe Biden blocked the sale last month, fulfilling his pledge to keep the U.S. steelmaker domestically owned and overruling his foreign-policy advisers. Biden's decision came after the Committee on Foreign Investment in the U.S. spent months reviewing the deal for potential national-security risks. The committee deadlocked over whether to recommend the deal. That left the decision up to Biden.

U.S. Steel and Nippon Steel are challenging the decision in federal court, arguing that the deal wasn't given fair consideration by the committee because Biden had signaled his opposition before the panel began its evaluation.

During Friday's press conference, Trump brushed off concerns from Democrats and some Republicans about Elon Musk's Department of Government Efficiency, which has embedded in federal agencies in a bid to slash spending and reduce the size of the government workforce.

The president confirmed that DOGE officials are evaluating operations at the Education Department and will examine military spending.

The Pentagon budget is now more than $800 billion, and the department has two million troops and nearly 1 million civilian workers. "We're going to be looking at tremendous amounts of money that are being spent on things that bear no relationship to anything, that have no value," Trump said.

During a town hall meeting on Friday, Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth said he would review whether the military can reduce the number of generals and admirals in its ranks.

Separately, Trump said at his news conference he would dismiss some of the federal law-enforcement agents who investigated the riot in the U.S. Capitol on January 6, 2021.

"I'll fire some of them, because some of them were corrupt — I have no doubt about that," Trump said. "I got to know a lot about that world and we have some corrupt agents."

This week, Attorney General Pam Bondi started a new working group to examine any "improper investigative tactics and unethical prosecutions" in the wave of nearly 1,600 cases stemming from the 2021 attack.

* Nancy A. Youssef contributed to this article.

Write to Annie Linskey at annie.linskey@wsj.com and Bob Tita at robert.tita@wsj.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250207009638:0/)
