---
title: "Global Forex and Fixed Income Roundup: Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-11 17:35:00"
summary: "The latest Market Talks covering FX and Fixed Income. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.0935 GMT - Investors slightly reduce their expectations of the Bank of England cutting interest rates in March after BOE monetary policy committee member Catherine Mann emphasised the need for restrictive monetary policy..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The latest Market Talks covering FX and Fixed Income. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.

0935 GMT - Investors slightly reduce their expectations of the Bank of England cutting interest rates in March after BOE monetary policy committee member Catherine Mann emphasised the need for restrictive monetary policy to tackle inflation. Mann was last week one of two the BOE's nine policymakers who unexpectedly voted to cut rates by a larger 50 basis points, rather than 25 basis points. "The key risk is that the run-up in inflation for salient items like food and fuel causes another period of domestic, second-round inflationary effects," she said in a speech at Leeds Beckett University. Markets price a 27% chance of a March rate cut following the speech, down from 29% beforehand, LSEG Refinitiv data show. (miriam.mukuru@wsj.com)

0918 GMT - Gold futures rise after setting a fresh record earlier in the session. Futures are up 0.1% at $2,937.10 a troy ounce, having risen as high as $2,069 in Asian overnight trading. Gold and the U.S. dollar both extended gains, fuelled by fresh tariff threats from President Trump, Swissquote Bank's Ipek Ozkardeskaya says in a note. Trump said on the weekend that he will implement 25% tariffs on steel and aluminum, driving up safe-haven demand for assets like gold. China, Turkey, India and Eastern European nations among others are continuing to buy gold to build their reserves of assets that don't carry Trump or U.S. risks, Ozkardeskaya says. While the tight trade and geopolitical environment could get tenser and uglier very quickly, gold remains the ultimate Trump hedge, and makes $3,000 an ounce easily achievable, she adds. (joseph.hoppe@wsj.com)

0913 GMT - China's trade tensions with the U.S. may be a catalyst for Beijing to accelerate policy easing, according to HSBC economists. The Trump administration's additional 10% tariff on goods imported from China is likely to shave off 0.3 percentage point from China's GDP growth, they say in a note. The tariffs may also push Beijing to implement more forceful fiscal easing and structural reforms, the economists note. Consumption tax reform could accelerate this year, including shifting the collection point from production to consumption, and giving a share to local governments, they add. The key objective is to enhance fiscal sustainability and streamline the fiscal relationship between the central and local governments, they say. Investors will be closely watching the National People's Congress in early March. (tracy.qu@wsj.com)

0908 GMT - The euro could weaken further as U.S.-eurozone interest rate differentials move against the single currency ahead of potential U.S. trade tariffs, ING's Chris Turner says in a note. President Trump's announcement Monday of a 25% tariff on all steel and aluminum imports hit the EU, he says. Europe is now bracing for tariffs on other sectors, like autos, although politicians are likely concerned about broader tariffs. "Whatever today's news on tariffs, wide rate spreads justify the euro continuing to trade near $1.03 and undermine the need for any corrective bounce." The euro rises 0.1% to $1.0315 but could fall towards the $1.0250-60 range or lower if Trump delivers new tariffs, he says. (renae.dyer@wsj.com)

0859 GMT - The Indian equities selloff has opened up opportunities, HSBC strategists say. They see the software sector as showing improving growth prospects, adding that it stands to gain from a weak rupee. Lenders can benefit from less restrictive monetary policy, and they also like consumer names that can tap India's rural demand recovery or markets overseas. They favor electronics maker Dixon, which is supported by industry and policy tailwinds. Automaker Maruti Suzuki stands out for its export potential and rural market positioning, while insurance platform PB Fintech can grow at 2X-3X the industry rate thanks to competitive advantages. HSBC also likes Godrej Properties, whose large land bank lets it grow in tough times, and LTIMindtree, which is well-placed for rising IT services demand. HSBC has buy calls on all five. (fabiana.negrinochoa@wsj.com)

0843 GMT - There is some risk that Japan's 4Q nominal GDP growth will miss consensus views for a 1.1% on-quarter rise, Vis Nayar and Ray Farris at Eastspring Investments say. But the expected rise in growth in 1H backs their constructive view on Japanese equities, which tend to trend in line with nominal GDP. Inflation surprised to the upside in December, and most indicators suggest reflation will continue in 1H at least, CIO Nayar and chief economist Farris say. Crucially, wage growth rose in 4Q and is tipped to climb more in the coming Shunto wage negotiations, they say. If the Shunto delivers faster wage growth, real incomes should rise and support a recovery in real consumption growth. Factor in sustained inflation and nominal GDP growth should stay close to 1%, they add. (fabiana.negrinochoa@wsj.com)

0830 GMT - The U.K. Debt Management Office is likely to launch the new March 2035 gilt via syndication on Tuesday, RBC Capital Markets analysts say in a note. The bond is likely to attract strong demand given its favorable valuation, RBC says. "Tuesday's transaction also marks the peak in gilt supply concentration for the quarter and hence the supply schedule will start to be supportive of gilt crossmarket outperformance into the end of March," the analysts say. (miriam.mukuru@wsj.com)

0823 GMT - Sterling could extend its losses if Bank of England official Catherine Mann argues further in favor of cutting interest rates more aggressively in a 0845 GMT speech, ING's Chris Turner says in a note. The BOE cut rates by 25 basis points Thursday but Mann was one of two policymakers who preferred a 50 basis-point cut. She told the Financial Times her vote reflected a weakening jobs market and slowing consumer demand. Further comments along those lines could firm market expectations for three further 25 basis-point cuts this year, Turner says. Sterling is more vulnerable against the dollar as the euro faces potential U.S. tariffs, he says. Sterling falls 0.2% to $1.2345 and could drop to $1.2250 near term, ING says (renae.dyer@wsj.com)

0803 GMT - Bitcoin rises following a rally in U.S. tech stocks overnight, XTB's Kathleen Brooks says in a note. Tech stocks are recovering from a recent selloff led by concerns that Chinese startup DeepSeek's new artificial intelligence could threaten America's dominance in the sector. "Big money is betting that tech will resume its leadership of the U.S. stock market," Brooks says. This suggests stocks could remain resilient to President Trump's tariff threats and his stance on trade policy won't have a negative effect on inflation or global growth. Bitcoin's gains is another sign it is moving closely with U.S. tech stocks. Bitcoin rises 0.9% to $98,303, according to LSEG. (renae.dyer@wsj.com)

0750 GMT - China and other Asian countries have so far escaped the brunt of the U.S. tariff pains, but this is likely the exception, not the rule going forward, Vishnu Varathan of Mizuho Securities writes in a note. It is premature for Asia to find solace from the latest steel and aluminum tariffs, which will impact key exporters like Canada and Mexico for now, as China and the region were not Trump's main targets of these tariffs in the first place, Varathan says. Further tariffs will be rolled out incrementally, with the bigger picture for these policies still ultimately aimed at China, and the rest of Asia will inevitably be affected given extensive supply chains, Varathan says. (kimberley.kao@wsj.com)

0743 GMT - The dollar trades steady ahead of a testimony from Federal Reserve Chair Jerome Powell later. Powell is expected to sound cautious about cutting interest rates, though there's mounting pressure from President Trump to lower rates, Swissquote Bank analyst Ipek Ozkardeskaya says in a note. U.S. growth remains solid, the jobs market healthy, and inflation sticky, she says. Trump's growth-boosting policies and tariff threats could also increase inflation, she says. A cautious stance from Powell would potentially boost the dollar. Powell speaks before the Senate Banking Committee at 1500 GMT. He will then address the House Financial Services Committee Wednesday. The DXY dollar index trades flat at 108.356. (renae.dyer@wsj.com)

0740 GMT - Trump's recent comments on Treasurys seem concerning to Pepperstone's Michael Brown but tariffs still appear to be front of mind for market participants. Trump suggested Sunday that the government's efficiency team found irregularities that could mean the U.S.'s debt obligations are lower than thought, potentially implying that some payments could be disregarded, the senior research strategist says. "Much more of this talk and participants will have little-to-no choice but to attach a higher risk premium to U.S. debt, and perhaps even be forced to sell Treasury holdings," Brown says. That said, markets remain focused on tariffs for now even as fatigue on that front seems to be settling in. U.S. Treasurys took the comments in stride, with little changes on Monday, or Tuesday overnight. The 10-year Treasury yield rises 1.5 basis points to 4.509%, according to LSEG. (emese.bartha@wsj.com)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250211002052:0/)
