---
title: "IEA Slightly Lifts Oil Demand Outlook, Says Supply Surplus Narrowing — Commodities Roundup"
date: "2025-02-14 01:50:00"
summary: "MARKET MOVEMENTS:Brent crude oil is down 0.2% at $75.06 a barrelEuropean benchmark gas is down 0.7% at 51.01 euros a megawatt-hourGold futures are up 0.6% at $2,947.40 a troy ounceLME three-month copper futures are up 0.2% at $9,493.50 a metric tonTOP STORY:IEA Slightly Lifts Oil Demand Outlook, Says Supply Surplus..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

MARKET MOVEMENTS:

* Brent crude oil is down 0.2% at $75.06 a barrel
* European benchmark gas is down 0.7% at 51.01 euros a megawatt-hour
* Gold futures are up 0.6% at $2,947.40 a troy ounce
* LME three-month copper futures are up 0.2% at $9,493.50 a metric ton

TOP STORY:

IEA Slightly Lifts Oil Demand Outlook, Says Supply Surplus Narrowing

The International Energy Agency modestly raised its forecast for global oil-demand growth and said improved compliance with output quotas among members of the OPEC+ alliance is reducing a projected supply surplus in the market.

The Paris-based organization now estimates global demand to grow by 1.1 million barrels a day this year from 1.05 million barrels a day previously, reaching a total of 104 million barrels a day on average.

Growth this year is expected to exceed last year's but to remain below the 2023 level of over 2 million barrels a day. The agency's projections are also substantially lower than OPEC's, as the cartel currently expects demand to grow by 1.45 million barrels a day.

OTHER STORIES:

European Gas Prices Drop After U.S.-Russia Talks Over Ukraine

European natural-gas prices dropped as much as 8.2% in afternoon trade after the U.S. and the Kremlin agreed to start talks to end the war in Ukraine, raising prospects that Russian flows could soon resume.

The benchmark front-month gas contract at the Dutch TTF hub was trading at 51.75 euros a megawatt hour on Thursday, after breaking above 58 euros earlier this week--its highest level in two years.

"In the event of a ceasefire deal between Russia and Ukraine, we could see a sharp increase in Russian flows," analysts at DNB Markets said.

--

Nestle Posts Weakest Sales Growth in More Than Two Decades as Shoppers Retreat — 2nd Update

Nestle reported its weakest annual organic sales growth in more than a quarter of a century, hit by a consumer pullback, underscoring the challenges facing Chief Executive Laurent Freixe's bid to turn around the packaged-food giant.

The maker of KitKat chocolate bars and Nescafe coffee said Thursday that organic sales grew 2.2% in 2024, a sharp drop from growth of 7.2% a year prior.

However, the company noted that it is experiencing early signs of progress in a plan to revive sales growth. The Swiss group is looking to boost advertising-and-marketing investment and fix underperforming businesses--which together account for 21% of the group's sales--amid a tough environment for consumer-facing companies after years of high inflation.

--

American Consumer Likely to Pay Cost of Proposed Aluminum Tariffs, South32 CEO Says — Interview

Aluminum maker South32 sells thousands of tons of the metal each month to the U.S., and its chief executive isn't expecting that to change as President Trump prepares blanket duties on imports of a commodity used in everything from cars to cans to airplanes.

Instead, Graham Kerr said he expects the American consumer would bear the cost of planned tariffs on aluminum shipments to the U.S., which has little domestic production compared with its needs and relies heavily on metal from Canada and other countries.

--

Why Dealers Are Flying Gold Bars by Plane From London to New York

If you landed on a flight from Europe to JFK recently, you might have been an unwitting participant in a high-stakes, high-altitude trade by gold dealers at JPMorgan Chase.

President Trump's threatened tariffs on Europe have thrown precious-metal markets into disarray. Gold prices have been driven to record highs, and a yawning gap has opened in the value of the yellow metal in its two trading hubs, New York and London.

--

Uniper Expects 2024 Adjusted Earnings Within Guidance, Sees Declines for 2025

Uniper said its adjusted earnings for 2024 should fall within its outlook but that earnings are expected to decline this year.

The German gas importer, citing preliminary figures, said Thursday that it expected adjusted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization at 2.61 billion euros ($2.71 billion) for last year.

--

U.S. Soybean Export Sales Fall Below Estimates

Export sales of U.S. soybeans missed the low-end of forecasts from analysts surveyed by The Wall Street Journal this week.

In its latest weekly report, the Department of Agriculture said soybean export sales for the week ended Feb. 6 totaled 209,800 metric tons in the 2024/25 and 2025/26 marketing years. That's well below the forecast of surveyed analysts, who expected sales to land anywhere from 300,000 tons to 800,000 tons.

--

Imperial Oil Names John Whelan to Succeed Chairman, CEO Brad Corson

Imperial Oil has tapped company veteran John Whelan to take over from Chairman, President and Chief Executive Brad Corson when he retires this spring after roughly five years running the Canadian oil-and-gas producer.

--

Keyera Quarterly Earnings Driven Higher by Liquids-Infrastructure Segment

Canadian energy-infrastructure company Keyera logged a jump in quarterly earnings thanks to record realized-margin contributions from its liquids-infrastructure segment.

Keyera, which runs a largely fee-for-service business gathering, processing and transporting natural gas and gas liquids, reported net earnings of 88.9 million Canadian dollars ($62.1 million), or C$0.39 a share, for the fourth quarter, against C$49.2 million, or C$0.21, a year earlier.

MARKET TALKS:

Base Metal Prices Mixed as Market Awaits Trump's Next Round of Tariffs — Market Talk

1720 GMT - Base metal prices are mixed, with LME three-month copper up 0.1% at $9,481.0 a metric ton and LME three-month aluminum down 0.9% at $2,602 a ton. Copper made some gains to sit 2.4% higher on week, while aluminum has slipped 0.7%. Trading volumes have been relatively thin ahead of expectations of the next round of President Trump's so-called reciprocal tariffs. On Monday, Trump imposed 25% tariffs on all aluminum and steel imports, in addition to previously announced 10% levies on Chinese imports and delayed 25% tariffs on Mexican and Canadian goods. The effect so far on LME prices has been relatively muted, though U.S. premiums have risen to accommodate expectations of higher prices. Trump plans reciprocal tariffs targeting any country that has imposed U.S. levies, promising to sign the order later Thursday. (joseph.hoppe@wsj.com)

--

U.S. Natural Gas Storage Draw Lands at High End of Estimates — Market Talk

1122 ET - U.S. natural gas in underground storage fell by 100 billion cubic feet last week to 2,297 Bcf in a fifth consecutive triple-digit withdrawal, leaving inventories 67 Bcf or 2.8% below the five-year average, the EIA reports. Analysts in a Wall Street Journal survey had predicted a storage decline of 96 Bcf. The drawdown was smaller than the 144 Bcf five-year average for the week given a brief respite in the cold weather. "After some mild revisions in late January, the outlook for February has turned colder again over the past week," analysts at Morgan Stanley say in a note. Still, the bank lifted its end-of-March estimate for storage from 1,550 Bcf to 1,670 Bcf, citing slightly higher production. Nymex natural gas is up 5.5% at $3.761/mmBtu. (anthony.harrup@wsj.com)

--

Transition Away From La Niña Expected in Spring — Market Talk

1036 ET - The current La Niña climate system is expected to transition back into neutral in the coming months, says the National Weather Service's Climate Prediction Center in a note. The agency says that it assesses a 66% for La Niña to transition in March through May. If the transition doesn't happen, then it's a weak La Niña system expected to continue into the spring. "A weak La Niña is less likely to result in conventional winter/spring impacts, though predictable signals can still influence the forecast guidance," says the Climate Prediction Center. In the Midwest, planting season for row crops typically begins in April, lasting into mid-June. A La Niña system typically brings colder temperatures and more precipitation to the Midwest during the early spring. (kirk.maltais@wsj.com)

--

Hogs Turn Lower as Export Sales Drop — Market Talk

1032 ET - Lean hog futures on the CME are 0.4% lower in early trading, with downward momentum coming after the government reported weaker export sales of U.S. pork. The USDA says that through the week ended February 6, pork sales totaled 24,900 metric tons. That's less than half of what was reported by the USDA last week, with sales to Mexico being only 5,000 tons. The White House says President Trump plans to unveil reciprocal tariffs for all trading partners later today. Live cattle is flat in early trade. (kirk.maltais@wsj.com)

--

Conab Raises Outlook for Brazilian Grain Production — Market Talk

0917 ET - Brazilian crop agency Conab increases its outlook for Brazil's 2025 crop production--raising its total grain outlook to 325.7 million metric tons, up from 322.3 million tons estimated in January. Conab raises its outlook for Brazilian corn to 122 million tons, up from 119.6 million tons last month. It also slightly cuts its outlook for soybeans, to 166 million tons from 166.3 million tons. Grain futures are lower premarket, with corn under pressure amid an improved outlook for South American crops. "The conditions are positive for Brazilian corn planting and the weather in Argentina has stabilized that crop for now," says Tomm Pfitzenmaier of Summit Commodity Brokerage in a note. Corn is down 0.5%, soybeans off 0.2%, and wheat up 0.7%. (kirk.maltais@wsj.com)

--

U.S. Natural Gas Futures Extend Rally — Market Talk 0858 ET - U.S. natural gas futures add to gains on strong heating demand and LNG feedgas flows, with production down from last week. The Nymex front month is up 4.4% at $3.722/mmBtu, its highest level since the week of January 24 when a blast of Arctic weather led to the fourth-largest storage withdrawal on record. Today's EIA report is expected to show a below-average draw on inventories reflecting last week's respite in the weather, but a return to larger withdrawals is seen for following weeks. (anthony.harrup@wsj.com)

--

Oil Futures Lower on Russia-Ukraine Prospects, U.S. Tariff Plan — Market Talk

0824 ET - Oil futures add to the previous session's losses on the possibility of Russia-Ukraine peace talks promoted by President Trump and expectations Trump will outline plans today for reciprocal trade tariffs on countries that impose duties on U.S. goods. Spartan Capital's Peter Cardillo sees "demand factors stemming from these tariffs" contributing to weaker crude, "however, we believe the very low end of the $70 level will likely hold." WTI is off 1.1% at $70.59 a barrel. Brent crude is 1.1% lower at $74.33 a barrel. (anthony.harrup@wsj.com)

--

Base Metal Prices Fall; US Copper Volatility on Tariffs Looks Excessive — Market Talk

1237 GMT - Base metal prices fall, with LME three-month copper down 0.2% at $9,451 a metric ton and LME three-month aluminum down 0.6% at $2,611 a ton. President Trump's 25% tariffs on steel and aluminum imports have caused volatility including in the U.S. to LME copper premium, though this is likely to be excessive, Macquarie's Marcus Garvey says in a note. The tariffs operate through the re-imposition and extension of 2018's Section 232 tariffs, and implicitly the same mechanism can't be used to apply tariffs to other commodities at short notice as that would need a related Commerce Department investigation, Garvey writes. That said, prices of copper and other base metals remain vulnerable to either blanket tariffs, or country-specific tariffs that would hit a large proportion of U.S. imports, Garvey adds. (joseph.hoppe@wsj.com)

--

Gold Futures Climb to Near Record on Safe-Haven, Central Bank Demand — Market Talk

1224 GMT - Gold futures rise close to all-time highs on safe-haven and central bank demand. Futures rise 0.7% to $2,948.40 a troy ounce, close to the record $2,968.50 a troy ounce set during Tuesday's session. The precious metal has had a strong rally in the year-to-date, surpassing the above-consensus expectations of MUFG, analysts say in a note. The yellow metal is now closing in on $3,000 an ounce, which the Japanese bank had estimated would take until the third quarter of 2025. Gold's brisk start has much further to run, MUFG analysts say. Demand reflects both market fears around elevated geopolitical and economic uncertainties, driving safe-haven demand, and emerging market central bank demand, catalyzed by sanctions worries and risks of trade tariffs, MUFG says. (joseph.hoppe@wsj.com)

--

Russian Oil Export Revenue Rose Despite Sanctions, IEA Says — Market Talk

1024 GMT - Russia's revenue from the export of crude and other oil products rose last month despite Western sanctions, according to the International Energy Agency. Commercial export revenues climbed by $900 million on-month to $15.8 billion in January, the agency says in its latest report. New U.S. sanctions "complicate shipping and maritime compliance requirements while endeavoring to undermine longer-term Russian oil production," the IEA says. "Yet, new deceptive shipping practices to sustain these lucrative exports and collateral disruptions for global shipping could undermine these efforts." The agency lowered its 2025 projections for Russian oil production only by a modest 150,000 b/d to an average of 9.25 million b/d. In January, Russian crude supply rose by 100,000 b/d to 9.2 million b/d, with all barrels sold above the Western-imposed price cap of $60 per barrel. (giulia.petroni@wsj.com)

--

Palm Oil Ends Lower Amid Weak Demand Concerns — Market Talk

1022 GMT - Palm oil ended lower amid concerns of weak demand for the coming weeks, according to David Ng, a trader at Kuala Lumpur-based Iceberg X. Weaker Dalian palm olein and soybean oil prices also weighed down price sentiment, Ng says. He sees support at MYR4500 and resistance at MYR4680. Investors may also be turning to profit-taking, resonating the mixed performance seen on Wall Street overnight as well as the retreat in crude oil prices, Kenanga Futures analysts say. The Bursa Malaysia Derivatives contract for April delivery falls MYR65 to MYR4556 a ton. (tracy.qu@wsj.com)

--

Oil Extends Losses on Russia-Ukraine Peace Talks — Market Talk

0913 GMT - Oil prices extend the previous trading session's losses on news that U.S. President Trump and Russia's Vladimir Putin agreed to open talks to end the war in Ukraine. Brent crude is down 0.5% to $74.80 a barrel, while WTI falls 0.6% to $70.97 a barrel. Both benchmarks closed more than 2% lower on Wednesday, pressured by prospects of lower supply risks and speculation over a potential easing of restrictions on Russian producers. Meanwhile, hotter-than-expected inflation data in the U.S. is also weighing on sentiment, upholding the Federal Reserve's more cautious stance on interest-rate cuts. (giulia.petroni@wsj.com)

--

Base Metal Prices Fall Amid Thin Trading Volumes — Market Talk

0856 GMT - Base metal prices fall in slow trade, with LME three-month copper down 0.2% at $9,459 a metric ton and LME three-month aluminum down 0.6% at $2,611.50 a ton. President Trump has hiked the U.S. aluminum tariff to 25% from 10%, maintained the steel import tariff at 25% and removed all exemptions. Previously the exemptions had allowed for duty-free imports of steel and aluminum and limited the hit from tariffs to U.S. prices, MUFG analysts say in a note. That said, going with the base case scenario that there are no major exemptions, the tariffs will likely be predominantly passed onto U.S., not global prices, MUFG adds. Buyers in the U.S. already pay a Midwest premium over LME prices. (joseph.hoppe@wsj.com)

--

Gold Futures Rise Close to Records, Shrugging Off Higher US Yields — Market Talk

0838 GMT - Gold futures rise, sitting close to all-time highs on safe-haven demand. Futures are up 0.4% at $2,938.90 a troy ounce, nearing the record $2,968.50 an ounce set on Tuesday's session. Gold's gains come despite rising U.S. yields, traditionally a headwind to the precious metal's price, Swissquote Bank's Ipek Ozkardeskaya says in a note. This usually negative relationship has broken down as big buyers, including central banks, flee typically safe U.S. debt and replace it with gold, Ozkardeskaya writes. Spot gold prices hitting the $3,000 an ounce level could trigger some profit taking and a tactical opportunity to short the yellow metal, but the medium to long-term outlook for gold remains positive, Ozkardeskaya says. "If Bitcoin could rally to $100,000, gold could well continue its journey toward... $4,000 per ounce," she adds. (joseph.hoppe@wsj.com)

--

Gold Could Touch $3,000 in 2025 — Market Talk

0759 GMT - Gold could touch $3,000/oz in 2025, ANZ Research strategists say as they maintain a bullish stance on the precious metal. Strong investment inflows, resilient physical demand and higher central bank purchases will keep gold on a strong footing, they write in a report. Geopolitical tensions are expected to be complicated by Trump's trade and foreign policy this year, while import tariffs could have macroeconomic implications for the U.S. economy, ANZ says. "This should benefit gold as investors hedge portfolios against a volatile macro backdrop," the bank adds. Spot gold is 0.5% higher at $2,917.90/oz. (amanda.lee@wsj.com)

--

Iron Ore Edges Lower; Cyclone off Western Australia Eyed — Market Talk

0251 GMT - Iron ore edges lower in early Asian trading. Traders are closely watching a tropical cyclone that may affect Australian port operations, ANZ research analysts say in a note. Cyclone Zelia is expected to strengthen as it moves toward Western Australia's Pilbara coast, the analysts note. Still, Nanhua Futures analysts say the impact is expected and unlikely to inflict long-term damage to supply. Iron ore fundamentals continue to look good, they say. The most-traded iron-ore contract on the Dalian Commodity Exchange is down 0.2% at CNY819.0/ton. (tracy.qu@wsj.com)

--

U.S. Tariffs on Australian Steel, Aluminum Won't Change Trade Balance — Market Talk

0124 GMT - Aside from the direct effects on firms operating in the Australian steel and aluminum sectors, the implementation of U.S. tariffs on the sector won't have a material impact on Australia's trade balance with the U.S., says Tom Kennedy, economist at JP Morgan. The U.S. currently has a small trade surplus with Australia. While Australian aluminum exports to the U.S. have increased relative to prepandemic levels, these groups still comprise a very small share of Australia's trade basket and historically have had a negligible impact on the trade balance, he adds. U.S.-bound aluminum exports in particular account for roughly 2% of Australian exports to the U.S., and just 0.1% of all exports, Kennedy says. (james.glynn@wsj.com; @JamesGlynnWSJ)

--

Write to Barcelona Editors at barcelonaeditors@dowjones.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250213012844:0/)
