---
title: "Energy & Utilities Roundup: Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-11 17:20:00"
summary: "The latest Market Talks covering Energy and Utilities. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires at 4:20 ET, 12:20 ET and 16:50 ET.0819 GMT - BP's forward-looking guidance is a little soft compared with market expectations, RBC Capital Markets analysts Biraj Borkhataria and Adnan Dhanani write. The British energy major expects..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The latest Market Talks covering Energy and Utilities. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires at 4:20 ET, 12:20 ET and 16:50 ET.

0819 GMT - BP's forward-looking guidance is a little soft compared with market expectations, RBC Capital Markets analysts Biraj Borkhataria and Adnan Dhanani write. The British energy major expects first-quarter hydrocarbon production to fall by around 90,000 oil equivalent barrels a day due to divestments. However, investors had expected a production increase, they write. BP's 2025 corporate cost guidance of around $1 billion is roughly $200 million higher than consensus, they add. Shares trade up 0.4% at 467 pence. (adam.whittaker@wsj.com)

1926 GMT - Crude futures gain ground after falling for three straight weeks as markets shrug off President Trump's announcement of tariffs on steel and aluminum imports into the U.S., while disputes between Israel and Hamas over their cease-fire agreement rekindles some of the geopolitical risk premium recently absent from the market. Israel's declaring Hamas in violation of the ceasefire for postponing the next planned hostage release added to oil's gains, says Mizuho's Robert Yawger. He notes that the rally comes amid builds in U.S. crude stocks as refineries slow down for maintenance, "generally the softest time of the year for energy demand." WTI settles up 1.9% at $72.32 a barrel, and Brent rises 1.6% to $75.87. (anthony.harrup@wsj.com)

1414 GMT - Hydro One's rich valuation keeps BofA Securities bearish on the stock, despite praise for the Canadian power company. BofA reinstates coverage with an underperform call and C$44 price target, noting the current valuation premium based on expected 2026 EPS is 47% higher than the next-highest premium of the companies it covers. It says catalysts for any multiple expansion from here are further-dated than its 12-month price objective. Still, BofA argues Hydro One is well run and has among the strongest earnings and rate base growth visibility in the sector. Shares now down 0.6% at C$45.29. (robb.stewart@wsj.com)

1257 GMT - Oil futures start the week higher after three consecutive weeks of losses as the U.S. plans to place tariffs on all steel and aluminum imports while Chinese retaliatory tariffs on U.S. oil and gas go into effect. The steel and aluminum tariffs "are apparently supportive to oil, dollar, equities, etc.," Ritterbusch says in a note. "Geopolitical premium that had supported oil values across last year have now been replaced by a tariff premium that will remain elevated for at least another three weeks until a White House decision is made regarding hefty tariffs on Canada and Mexico that will directly impact the flow of crude into the U.S.," the firm adds. WTI is up 1.3% at $71.91 a barrel, and Brent is up 1.2% at $75.56 a barrel. (anthony.harrup@wsj.com)

1354 GMT - Elliott Management hasn't made a hostile approach to the BP board and will seek a more "suggestivist" approach to get its ideas across, AJ Bell investment director Russ Mould writes. Elliott is reportedly seeking better shareholder value but it is hard to see how it can campaign for higher dividends or share buybacks, he writes. In 2024, BP delivered $5 billion in dividends and ran share buybacks worth $7.3 billion, he says. Elliott might want BP to refocus its strategy on oil-and-gas production, better allocate capex, or shift its listing to the U.S., Mould says. Shares trade up 7.3% at 464.65 pence. (adam.whittaker@wsj.com)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250211001959:0/)
