---
title: "Global Forex and Fixed Income Roundup: Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-10 23:39:00"
summary: "The latest Market Talks covering FX and Fixed Income. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.1039 ET - Prices of euro-denominated corporate bonds exposed to potential U.S. tariffs don't sufficiently reflect the risk of such tariffs, BNP Paribas credit strategists say in a note. The 'Tariff Risk Premium'..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The latest Market Talks covering FX and Fixed Income. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.

1039 ET - Prices of euro-denominated corporate bonds exposed to potential U.S. tariffs don't sufficiently reflect the risk of such tariffs, BNP Paribas credit strategists say in a note. The 'Tariff Risk Premium' which measures the spread between tariff-sensitive names and euro non-financial bonds, shows that only modest risk is priced in, they say. After Trump's first announcement on plans for tariffs on goods from Canada, Mexico and China following his inauguration, euro credit spreads widened in line with macro weakness, but "without much differentiation." (miriam.mukuru@wsj.com)

1014 ET - Hydro One's rich valuation keeps BofA Securities bearish on the stock, despite praise for the Canadian power company. BofA reinstates coverage with an underperform call and C$44 price target, noting the current valuation premium based on expected 2026 EPS is 47% higher than the next-highest premium of the companies it covers. It says catalysts for any multiple expansion from here are further-dated than its 12-month price objective. Still, BofA argues Hydro One is well run and has among the strongest earnings and rate base growth visibility in the sector. Shares now down 0.6% at C$45.29. (robb.stewart@wsj.com)

1005 ET - Adverse weather was a major cause of depressed job creation in January, the San Francisco Fed's Weather-Adjusted Employment Change tool suggests. The BLS reported 143,000 jobs created last month. The Fed tool adjusts the data for weather that deviates from historical seasonal norms. The model's weather-adjusted total employment is estimated at 223,000, or 227,000 when regional weather conditions are factored in. The BLS said that weather had no discernible effect on payroll employment. (paulo.trevisani@wsj.com; @ptrevisani)

0941 ET - The USDA reports that Mexico has purchased 365,000 metric tons of U.S. corn for delivery in the 2024/25 marketing year. Even with an increasingly-tense world trade environment, Mexico is still buying large volumes of U.S. grains. The sale also comes after Mexico dropped its restrictions on GMO corn. Most-active corn futures on the CBOT are unchanged, with trading expected to be tentative ahead of tomorrow's WASDE, although no big revelations for the U.S. corn crop are expected. Traders are focused on how the USDA may change it's estimates on South American production. (kirk.maltais@wsj.com)

0932 ET - The choice of Jaime Muguiro to lead Mexican cement maker Cemex when current CEO Fernando González retires April 1 is "a natural step" as the U.S. is at the core of Cemex's growth strategy, Citi's Andrés Cardona says in a note. Muguiro is currently the head of Cemex USA. "The transition and timing make perfect sense," Cardona says, as González led Cemex's deleveraging over the past decade and made significant progress repositioning the company's portfolio toward developed markets. (anthony.harrup@wsj.com)

0928 ET - The dollar weakens against most major currencies while dollar indexes rise, as markets react to a new set of tariffs announced by President Trump over the weekend. Both the ICE's DXY gauge and the broader WSJ Dollar Index rise around 0.1%, while the greenback weakens 0.2% against the euro and strengthens 0.3% versus the yen. The 25% levy on all steel and aluminum imports to the U.S. looks less likely to be avoided the way previous country-targeting tariffs were. Goldman Sachs' Stuart Jenkins writes that "we think they would have a more durable Dollar impact that the market is not yet fully pricing." (paulo.trevisani@wsj.com; @ptrevisani)

0911 ET - Treasury yields hover around Friday's settlement levels as the week once again starts with the threat of tariffs announced over the weekend. This time around, there seems to be less room for negotiation to avoid a 25% levy on steel and aluminium. Questions remain about how tariffs will impact inflation and Fed decisions on interest rates. Markets are mostly pricing not more than one cut this year, CME data show. That could be a sign of growing concerns about inflation. Chair Powell has his semiannual report to Congress tomorrow at the Senate and Wednesday at the House. The 10-year is at 4.486% and the two-year at 4.271%. (paulo.trevisani@wsj.com; @ptrevisani)

0849 ET - Canada stands to bear the brunt of the pain from President Trump's 25% tariff on steel and aluminum tariffs. Canada is the top exporter to the U.S. of steel, accounting for about 25% of steel imports, via the International Trade Administration. Mexico is No. 2 at about 15%. Canada is by far the biggest seller to the US of aluminum, accounting for 60% of imports. Canada won a reprieve last week on 25% tariffs on all its nonenergy US-bound exports, which Trump says he will revisit early next month to ensure Ottawa is living up to its commitment to fortify border security and deter fentanyl trafficking. (Paul.Vieira@wsj.com, @paulvieira)

0834 ET - Investors are rushing to lock in attractive yields on euro-denominated corporate bonds as they expect yields on sovereign bonds to decline as the European Central Bank continues to cut interest rates, asset management company Edmond de Rothschild says in a note. "The outlook for lower yields to come is driving current demand as euro investment-grade is yielding an attractive 3.2% and euro high-yield 5.6%," they say. The ECB could cut the deposit rate to below 2.0% by the end of the summer from 2.75% currently, Edmond de Rothschild says. It would be advisable to buy long-dated euro corporate bonds, the asset manager says. (miriam.mukuru@wsj.com)

0828 ET - The euro could strengthen against the dollar if the EU avoids harsh tariffs from Trump, Morgan Stanley analysts say in a note. "Our base case includes gradual, targeted tariffs on the EU later in 2025, preceded by a reinstatement of the Section 232 steel and aluminum tariffs," they say. Such targeted tariffs would unlikely have a significant impact on euro-area economic growth. Morgan Stanley continues to advise buying the euro, targeting a level of $1.08. The euro is last up 0.2% at $1.0316. (renae.dyer@wsj.com)

0823 ET - The cost of insuring euro credit against default using credit default swaps edges lower as markets settle after the French budget passed through parliament last week and the Bank of England cut interest rates by 25 basis points. Falls are limited, however, as tariff risks loom, with U.S. President Trump announcing plans for 25% tariffs on steel and aluminum imports on Sunday. Markets could be underestimating the threat of a trade war, asset management company, Edmond de Rothschild, says in a note. The iTraxx Europe Crossover index which tracks euro junk bond credit default swaps falls 2 basis points to 290bps, S&P Global Market Intelligence data show. The iTraxx Europe Senior Financials which tracks euro investment-grade financial bonds, declines 1bp to 59bps. (miriam.mukuru@wsj.com)

0751 ET - Dutch telecommunications company KPN is marketing a new euro-denominated 10-year bond. The deal offers investors a generous valuation, with an initial price talk of mid-swap rate plus 150 basis points, CreditSights analysts say in a note. The initial price talk implies around 45 basis points new issue concession compared with other similar KPN bonds, the analysts say. "We expect the initial price talk to be tightened up, and we would be buyers north of mid-swap rate plus 120 basis points (around 3.5% yield)," CreditSights says. KPN credit is likely to perform in line with other credit from similar companies in the same sector, says CreditSights, which has a market perform rating on the company's debt. (miriam.mukuru@wsj.com)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250210006942:0/)
