---
title: "New Zealand's Manufacturing Sector Snaps 23-Month Contraction"
date: "2025-02-14 06:21:00"
summary: "By James GlynnSYDNEY--New Zealand's manufacturing sector expanded for the first time in almost two years in December on a strong tailwind from interest rate cuts, with more set to be delivered as early as next week.The BNZ - BusinessNZ Performance of Manufacturing Index for January was 51.4, rising from 46.2..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By James Glynn

SYDNEY--New Zealand's manufacturing sector expanded for the first time in almost two years in December on a strong tailwind from interest rate cuts, with more set to be delivered as early as next week.

The BNZ - BusinessNZ Performance of Manufacturing Index for January was 51.4, rising from 46.2 in December, expanding the most since September 2022.

Despite the renewed strength in activity, the January result is still below the average of 52.5 since the survey began.

"After the longest continued period of contraction, the manufacturing sector has finally broken the trend and started 2025 on a positive note," said BusinessNZ's Director, Advocacy, Catherine Beard.

The recovery comes as the Reserve Bank of Zealand has slashed the official cash rate by 125 basis points since mid 2024, making it one of the most aggressive central banks in the current global easing cycle.

The RBNZ is expected to cut again at a policy meeting next week, with economists expecting a further 50 basis points OCR reduction, with some adding the cut may be even bigger as the central bank moves to quickly revive the economy.

While recent GDP data showed the economy in a sharp contraction in late 2024 with unemployment rising, economists expect a fairly robust recovery in 2025.

All sub-index values were in expansion during January, the data showed.

Production and new orders both stood at 50.9 in January, with the latter at its highest level of activity since August 2022. Finished stocks recorded its highest level of activity since May 2024.

The proportion of negative comments from respondents stood at 57.7% in January, down from 59% in December, but still up from 56% in November and 53.5% in October, according to the report.

Write to James Glynn at james.glynn@wsj.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250213017130:0-new-zealand-s-manufacturing-sector-snaps-23-month-contraction/)
