---
title: "Deere Beats Earnings Estimates but the Stock Is Dropping. Here's Why. — Barrons.com"
date: "2025-02-13 23:34:00"
summary: "Al RootDeere stock was falling after the company reported better-than-expected earnings and maintained earnings guidance.Investors appeared nervous about the sales.Deere reported on Thursday fiscal first-quarter earnings per share of $3.19 from equipment sales of $6.8 billion. Wall Street was looking for $3.11 and $7.7 billion, respectively. A year ago, Deere..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Al Root

Deere stock was falling after the company reported better-than-expected earnings and maintained earnings guidance.

Investors appeared nervous about the sales.

Deere reported on Thursday fiscal first-quarter earnings per share of $3.19 from equipment sales of $6.8 billion. Wall Street was looking for $3.11 and $7.7 billion, respectively. A year ago, Deere reported a profit of $6.23 a share from sales of $10.5 billion.

Earnings guidance, given in November, was maintained. The company still expects net income of between $5 billion and $5.5 billion. Wall Street expects $5.2 billion. Net income in fiscal 2024 amounted to about $7.1 billion.

Shares were down 4.6% in premarket trading at $454.57 a share, while S&P 500 and Dow Jones Industrial Average futures were up about 0.1%.

Weak quarterly sales might have something to do with the reaction. Investors might be worried that business won't pick up as fast as Deere management expects in the rest of the fiscal year. Wall Street projects full-year equipment sales to decline roughly 15% year over year. The first quarter's decline was closer to 35%.

Deere still expects large equipment sales — think big tractors and combines — to decline by 30% in the U.S. in fiscal 2025. Overall sales guidance for its large farm equipment, however, was moved to a range of down 15% to 20% from prior guidance of down about 15%.

Large ag equipment accounted for about 45% of total first-quarter equipment sales.

The outlook also didn't contemplate the impact of any of President Donald Trump's tariffs.

Trump has threatened 25% tariffs on Mexico, where Deere has some facilities. The president also put 25% tariffs on steel and aluminum products. Steel imports account for roughly 20% of domestic consumption so those tariffs have the potential to impact pricing.

Quantifying the tariff impact on earnings has been tough. Ford Motor and General Motors chose not to do it when they reported fourth-quarter results. Investors would like some guidance on what to expect and hope it won't impact bottom-line earnings significantly.

Deere shares could also be down because of investor expectations. They could have been expecting good news. Coming into Thursday, Deere stock had risen about 13% this year and about 21% over the past three months.

In almost every scenario, sales and earnings will be down significantly for Deere in fiscal 2025. It has been tough for farmers lately. Net farm income in the U.S. was about $163 billion in 2024, down from $165 billion in 2023 and down from a record $228 billion in 2022, according to the USDA. Lower farm income translates to less money to spend on tractors and combines.

There is some hope for a rebound. The USDA projects $194 billion in 2025 income.

How quickly that will translate to sales for Deere is difficult to pin down. Management called out high levels of used equipment in its inventory on its latest earnings conference call.

Write to Al Root at allen.root@dowjones.com

This content was created by Barron's, which is operated by Dow Jones & Co. Barron's is published independently from Dow Jones Newswires and The Wall Street Journal.

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250212015989:0/)
