---
title: "News Highlights: Top Company News of the Day - Tuesday at 9 PM ET"
date: "2025-02-12 10:00:00"
summary: "Lyft Sees Growth Slowdown in Gross BookingsLyft posted a quarterly profit of $61.7 million compared with a loss of $26.3 million a year ago. Wall Street analysts had expected a loss of $3.4 million.Chinese Battery Giant CATL Applies for Hong Kong ListingThe world's largest maker of EV batteries has applied..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

**Lyft Sees Growth Slowdown in Gross Bookings**

Lyft posted a quarterly profit of $61.7 million compared with a loss of $26.3 million a year ago. Wall Street analysts had expected a loss of $3.4 million.

**Chinese Battery Giant CATL Applies for Hong Kong Listing**

The world's largest maker of EV batteries has applied for a secondary listing in Hong Kong, joining the ranks of Chinese companies looking to tap the city's fundraising markets.

**Super Micro Computer Stock Climbs on Lofty 2026 Outlook**

Shares of Super Micro Computer jumped after the company set a sales outlook for fiscal 2026 that blows past current Wall Street forecasts, unwinding a selloff earlier in the day.

**Zillow Outlook Collides With Subdued Housing Market**

Zillow Group posted fourth-quarter revenue growth and projected gains would continue despite challenges including high mortgage rates that have dampened the housing market.

**DoorDash's stock rallies as demand forecast tops expectations**

Food-delivery app DoorDash Inc. on Tuesday forecast a key demand metric to come in above Wall Street's expectations for the first quarter, as it adds more grocery stores to its platform to complement its core restaurant business.

**IAC Hopes to Build Monetization of Dotdash Meredith, Grow Care.com, CFO Says**

The media and internet holding company is ready to move on from home-services company Angi, its chief financial officer said.

**Robinhood Stock Has Soared Along With Crypto. What to Expect From Its Earnings.**

The brokerage firm appears poised to benefit from a surge in investor activity and strong interest in cryptocurrencies.

**Vertiv Has a Lot to Prove With Earnings. What Could Move the Stock.**

The maker of cooling systems for AI data centers will try to convince investors that DeepSeek hasn't tamped down demand for its products.

**Carlyle Targets Wealthy Investors With Its Expansion Plans**

The firm aims to boost its professional ranks catering to wealthy clients by 50% this year following a 65% gain in assets from individuals in 2024.

**CVS Health Stock Is Making a Comeback. Earnings Are the Next Hurdle.**

The stock fell more than 40% in 2024 as threats to virtually all of the company's core businesses piled up.

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250211013284:0/)
