---
title: "News Highlights: Top Company News of the Day - Tuesday at 7 AM ET"
date: "2025-02-11 20:15:00"
summary: "DuPont Stock Rises on Strong Earnings and OutlookDuPont reports fourth-quarter adjusted earnings per share of $1.13 from sales of $3.1 billion. Wall Street was looking for profit of 98 cents a share and sales of $3.1 billion.Musk's $97.4 Billion OpenAI Bid Piles Pressure on AltmanThe unsolicited offer for the assets..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

**DuPont Stock Rises on Strong Earnings and Outlook**

DuPont reports fourth-quarter adjusted earnings per share of $1.13 from sales of $3.1 billion. Wall Street was looking for profit of 98 cents a share and sales of $3.1 billion.

**Musk's $97.4 Billion OpenAI Bid Piles Pressure on Altman**

The unsolicited offer for the assets of OpenAI could end up costing CEO Sam Altman, whether he takes it or not.

**BP Touts 'New Beginning,' Fundamental Change in Strategy**

BP said profit fell more than expected and that it would reset its strategy, days after reports that activist hedge fund Elliott Management is pushing for change at the company.

**SMIC Quarterly Profit Falls, Expects Continued Revenue Growth**

China's largest chip maker reported lower profit during the traditional off-peak season, but expects continued revenue growth in the current quarter.

**UniCredit Guides For Flat Profit This Year With Higher Returns**

The Italian bank said it expected net profit to be broadly in line with 2024's result and promised increased shareholder returns despite an expected dip in revenue as lower interest rates eat into its top line.

**Gucci Owner Kering Posts Revenue Slump Amid Brand Revamp Efforts**

The fall in revenue comes as some peers have signaled a potential rebound in demand for luxury goods.

**Novartis to Buy Anthos Therapeutics for Up to $3.1 Billion**

The pharmaceutical giant said it has agreed to acquire the U.S. privately held, clinical-stage biopharmaceutical company to boost its cardiovascular pipeline.

**Accounting Firms Hire Growth Leaders as Dealmaking Shakes Up Industry**

More accounting firms are adding chief growth officers to their ranks as small and midsize players aim to stay competitive amid fast-paced expansion and dealmaking in the traditionally staid industry.

**Elliott Builds Over $2.5 Billion Stake in Phillips 66**

The activist investor plans to push the oil refiner to consider selling or spinning off its midstream business.

**Hertz Prevails in Warrant-Holder's Share-Repurchase Lawsuit**

Discovery Capital Management argued the rental-car company's debt and equity deals amounted to a payment-triggering reorganization. A judge disagreed.

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250211003993:0-news-highlights-top-company-news-of-the-day-tuesday-at-7-am-et/)
