---
title: "Nike Returns to Super Bowl Advertising for First Time in 27 Years — WSJ"
date: "2025-02-09 22:00:00"
summary: "By Suzanne VranicaNike is making a high-stakes bet on a Super Bowl commercial to breathe new life into its struggling brand.After losing market share to Hoka and others, the company is turning to the meteoric rise of women's sports — particularly women's basketball — to spark a comeback.WNBA superstar Caitlin..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Suzanne Vranica

Nike is making a high-stakes bet on a Super Bowl commercial to breathe new life into its struggling brand.

After losing market share to Hoka and others, the company is turning to the meteoric rise of women's sports — particularly women's basketball — to spark a comeback.

WNBA superstar Caitlin Clark and a powerhouse lineup of more than half a dozen other famous female athletes, including Olympic gymnast Jordan Chiles, tennis pro Aryna Sabalenka and track star Sha'Carri Richardson, are all set to appear in Nike's 90-second commercial which will air during the National Football League's championship game.

Nike hopes to capture attention and reignite sales by using one of the biggest advertising stages in the world.

The new ad, three times the length of most Super Bowl spots, delivers a message of resilience and defiance. Featuring WNBA stars Clark, A'ja Wilson and Sabrina Ionescu, along with other elite female athletes, it showcases the women shooting, jumping, running — and celebrating, hyping up fans and even crying — while a voice-over lists the many things female athletes are told they can't do. Then it shuts down the doubt.

As Led Zeppelin's "Whole Lotta Love" plays in the background of the commercial, Grammy-winning rapper Doechii's voice calls out some of the limitations society imposes. "You can't make demands. You can't be proud. You can't keep score. You can't stand out," she intones. After building this tension, Doechii delivers the final line of the spot: "Whatever you do, you can't win. So Win."

Nike last aired a Super Bowl ad in 1998, featuring San Antonio Spurs center David Robinson and other athletes playing sports in the nude.

Super Bowl LIX is a significant component of Nike's ambitious turnaround set by CEO Elliott Hill, who took over the reins last fall. The plan includes reviving product innovation, rebuilding retailer relationships, ramping up marketing and refocusing on sports — the heart of Nike's identity.

The new big game spot, developed by ad agency Wieden+Kennedy, appears to tap into a female-empowerment message while also highlighting the recent momentum of women's sports.

Nike said the commercial isn't meant to carry political undertones. Instead, it is centered on the idea that all athletes — regardless of gender — should tune out critics and self-doubt, focusing solely on winning.

"It's a timeless athlete insight of being told things you can't be and needing to overcome that," said Nicole Hubbard Graham, a Nike veteran who was named chief marketing officer in 2023. She added that stars including LeBron James, Kobe Bryant, Maria Sharapova and Clark overcame naysayers and critics.

Super Bowl viewers can expect a mix of fresh faces and familiar favorites during the commercial breaks. OpenAI and Liquid Death, a brand that sells water in beer cans, are making their big game debuts, while Bud Light and Doritos, frequent guests at the game, are back again. There will be plenty of celebrity cameos, laugh-out-loud moments and a heavy dose of nostalgia as brands generally steer clear of politics and culture war drama.

Nike's return to the Super Bowl, the priciest real estate on TV where 30 seconds of ad time has sold for as much as $8 million this year, comes just months after the sneaker giant spent big on a global ad blitz during the Paris Olympics. That campaign featured LeBron James and Serena Williams, among others.

The high-profile marketing efforts are part of a significant pivot for the Beaverton, Ore.-based sportswear company, as it brings its marketing focus back to brand-building ads that reach a wide audience. That strategy helped establish it as one of the most beloved brands in the world.

One of Nike's missteps in recent years was overrelying on so-called performance marketing — digital ads aimed at driving immediate actions like purchases or collecting emails — at the expense of broader, emotional storytelling that builds brand awareness and loyalty.

Nike had long focused its marketing largely on athletes, but shifting to a product-centric approach eroded the brand's power, said Manfredi Ricca, global chief strategy officer at branding firm Interbrand. Nike was ranked as the ninth most-valuable brand in the world in 2023, but fell to No. 14 last year, according to Interbrand's annual ranking of the world's top brands.

"We really want to get back to athletes over algorithms," Nike's Graham said, promising to put athletes at the center of everything the company does. "You cannot be capturing demand if you're not also creating demand."

During an earnings call in December, Nike said it would be investing more in marketing and had already started shifting dollars from performance marketing to brand marketing.

Nike's marketing spending increased almost 6% to $4.29 billion in fiscal 2024, according to its annual report. The marketing spending, which Nike calls "demand creation," includes athlete endorsements, TV, digital and print ads, brand events and more.

Nike's iconic brand marketing efforts included its "Just Do It" ad slogan that for decades has been a global rallying call for professional and everyday athletes. It didn't shy away from controversy, with a 2018 ad featuring former NFL player Colin Kaepernick — who by that point had become a polarizing figure in American sports after he began kneeling during the national anthem to protest racial injustice and police brutality.

A Nike billboard ad, showing a photo of Kaepernick, read: "Believe in something. Even if it means sacrificing everything." The ad spurred more companies to create ads that promote a cause or shed light on a societal issue, and a TV commercial featuring Kaepernick went on to win an Emmy.

"We lost some of that sharpness," Graham said. "Like many great sports teams, we needed to go back and look at our game tape."

Write to Suzanne Vranica at Suzanne.Vranica@wsj.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250209000348:0/)
