---
title: "News Highlights: Top Financial Services News of the Day - Friday at 12 AM ET"
date: "2025-02-14 13:00:00"
summary: "Barclays Faces Probe From U.K. Regulator Over Money-Laundering ControlsThe London-based bank said it is cooperating with the investigation.Coinbase Stock Jumps on Earnings. People Are Interested in Crypto Again.Donald Trump's return to the White House helped the company to blow past analysts' expectations in the fourth quarter.Barclays Guides For Growth After..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

**Barclays Faces Probe From U.K. Regulator Over Money-Laundering Controls**

The London-based bank said it is cooperating with the investigation.

**Coinbase Stock Jumps on Earnings. People Are Interested in Crypto Again.**

Donald Trump's return to the White House helped the company to blow past analysts' expectations in the fourth quarter.

**Barclays Guides For Growth After Quarterly Beat**

The lender expects an increase in profitability this year after group revenue rose 24%, boosted by its investment bank and its domestic retail division.

**Commerzbank to Cut Jobs in Bid to Boost Returns and Fend off UniCredit**

The lender plans to lay off around 9% of its workforce to boost returns and convince investors of its standalone prospects.

**Trump Picks Brian Quintenz to Be CFTC Chairman**

Quintenz, a Republican, served as a CFTC commissioner between 2017 and 2021.

**Brookfield Credit Chief Bullish on Future Growth of Asset-Based Lending**

The firm said it expects to double its roughly $317 billion in total credit assets within five years.

**This Hedge Fund Delivered a Solid Year. So Why Can't Its Investors Cash Out?**

Clients of Armistice Capital who recently redeemed got stuck with IOUs that have lost money in 2025.

**Jamie Dimon Sounds Off on Remote Work, Bureaucracy, 'Pablum and Bulls-'**

JPMorgan Chase CEO doesn't hold back answering questions during an internal meeting with staffers of the financial giant.

**Adyen Shares Jump After Strong Growth in Key Markets**

The Dutch payments company's stock rose on strong performance across all its key divisions.

**Financial Services Roundup: Market Talk**

Find insight on the supply of homes for sale in the U.S., the demand for stablecoins, Barclays, and more in the latest Market Talks covering Financial Services.

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250214000003:0/)
