---
title: "Philippine Central Bank Unexpectedly Holds Rates as Uncertainty Rises — Update"
date: "2025-02-13 17:02:00"
summary: "By Amanda LeeThe Philippine central bank surprised markets by keeping its policy rate on hold, pausing its easing cycle due to what it said was a significant rise in global uncertainty, particularly over trade policy.Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas maintained its benchmark overnight reverse repurchase rate at 5.75%, Gov. Eli Remolona..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Amanda Lee

The Philippine central bank surprised markets by keeping its policy rate on hold, pausing its easing cycle due to what it said was a significant rise in global uncertainty, particularly over trade policy.

Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas maintained its benchmark overnight reverse repurchase rate at 5.75%, Gov. Eli Remolona said Thursday. It also held its benchmark lending rate steady at 6.25%.

Risks and uncertainty to the global outlook justify keeping rates on hold now, the central bank governor said.

The decision had not been expected by any of the economists polled by The Wall Street Journal, with recent data showing a backdrop conducive to cuts. The Southeast Asian economy had tepid growth last year, and inflation looks manageable and on target.

"Normally, we would have cut further, but something has changed," Remolona said. "The thing that has changed is the uncertainty over what's going on globally."

The BSP's concerns have been echoed by other central banks, highlighting the challenge of making policy decisions in a period of heightened volatility. Shifting and often unexpected tariff announcements by U.S. President Trump's administration have made it hard for economists to predict what's coming next and what effect it will have on trade and growth.

More domestically demand-driven countries like the Philippines and India are less vulnerable to tariff shocks than ones like China that rely more on external demand, but not immune, ING's Deepali Bhargava said in a note. The Philippines exports fewer sophisticated goods to the U.S. than some of its peers but its share of services exports is large, putting it at risk if Trump's tariffs target services trade, she said.

Trade policy uncertainty is higher than it has been since at least the 1960s, the Philippines central bank governor said at a press briefing.

"We hope that the uncertainty over that clears soon, but the uncertainty itself has an impact, and that's very tricky to analyze," he said. "It's a new phenomenon so it's hard to tell. We're discussing it with our friends in other central banks."

However, the central bank stressed that more rate cuts are still on the table.

Remolona said the BSP will continue with a measured shift to less restrictive monetary policy settings.

Prior to Thursday's pause, the BSP had been cutting rates steadily since August last year, looking past the risk of adding depreciation pressure to the Philippine peso amid expectations of slower, shallower easing by the Federal Reserve. Fed Chair Jerome Powell said this week that the U.S. central bank doesn't need to rush to lower interest rates.

With U.S. trade policy set to remain uncertain for a while yet, the BSP clearly needs some time before it decides how to respond, Gareth Leather at Capital Economics said in a note.

He expects the Philippines to be hit by a 10% universal tariff, but that the impact will be relatively small.

"Provided inflation remains under control, then further cuts are likely over the coming months," the economist said.

Remolona stressed that the BSP will remain data-dependent in ensuring price stability, saying the central bank is still in the easing cycle and not thinking about raising rates.

The central bank continues to see firm growth prospects for the Philippines economy, with the potential for growth of 6% this year. Its inflation outlook stayed broadly unchanged, with the risk-adjusted inflation forecast for 2025 nudged up to 3.5%, and the projection for 2026 kept at 3.7%.

"We want to reduce inflation without reducing output. So that's a balancing act and this time the balancing act is more difficult than usual," Remolona said.

Write to Amanda Lee at amanda.lee@wsj.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250213004391:0-philippine-central-bank-unexpectedly-holds-rates-as-uncertainty-rises-update/)
