---
title: "Krispy Kreme, Inc. to Announce Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2024 Results on February 25, 2025"
date: "2025-02-11 21:34:00"
summary: "Krispy Kreme, Inc. to Announce Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2024 Results on February 25, 2025CHARLOTTE, N.C.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--February 11, 2025--Krispy Kreme, Inc. (\"Krispy Kreme\" or the \"Company\"), today announced that it will issue its fourth quarter and full year 2024 earnings results on Tuesday, February 25, 2025. Management will host..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Krispy Kreme, Inc. to Announce Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2024 Results on February 25, 2025

CHARLOTTE, N.C.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--February 11, 2025--

Krispy Kreme, Inc. ("Krispy Kreme" or the "Company"), today announced that it will issue its fourth quarter and full year 2024 earnings results on Tuesday, February 25, 2025. Management will host a conference call to discuss the results at 8:30AM ET on the same day.

To register for the conference call, please use this link. After registering, confirmation will be sent through email, including dial-in details and unique conference call codes for entry.

To listen to the live audio webcast and Q&A, visit the Krispy Kreme investor relations website at investors.krispykreme.com. A replay of the webcast will be available on the website within 24 hours after the call. Krispy Kreme's earnings press release and related materials will also be available on the investor relations section of the Company's website.

About Krispy Kreme, Inc.

Headquartered in Charlotte, N.C., Krispy Kreme is one of the most beloved and well-known sweet treat brands in the world. Our iconic Original Glazed(R) doughnut is universally recognized for its hot-off-the-line, melt-in-your-mouth experience. Krispy Kreme operates in 40 countries through its unique network of fresh doughnut shops, partnerships with leading retailers, and a rapidly growing digital business with more than 15,500 fresh points of access. Our purpose of touching and enhancing lives through the joy that is Krispy Kreme guides how we operate every day and is reflected in the love we have for our people, our communities, and the planet. Connect with Krispy Kreme Doughnuts at www.krispykreme.com and follow us on social: X, Instagram and Facebook.

View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20250210571936/en/

CONTACT: Investor Relations

IR@krispykreme.com

Financial Media

Edelman Smithfield for Krispy Kreme, Inc.

KrispyKremeIR@edelman.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250211005306:0/)
