---
title: "HF Sinclair Corp Files 8K - Regulation FD >DINO"
date: "2025-02-12 05:53:00"
summary: "HF Sinclair Corp (DINO) filed a Form 8K - Regulation FD Disclosure - with the U.S Securities and Exchange Commission on February 11, 2025.On February 11, 2025, HF Sinclair Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the \"Corporation\"), announced that it will redeem $195,000,000 aggregate principal amount of its outstanding 5.875% Senior Notes..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

HF Sinclair Corp (DINO) filed a Form 8K - Regulation FD Disclosure - with the U.S Securities and Exchange Commission on February 11, 2025.

On February 11, 2025, HF Sinclair Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the "Corporation"), announced that it will redeem $195,000,000 aggregate principal amount of its outstanding 5.875% Senior Notes due 2026 (CUSIP Nos. 403949 AF7, U4322C AB9, and 403949 AB6) (the "Notes"). The redemption price for the Notes will equal the greater of (i) 100% of the principal amount of the Notes to be redeemed and (ii) the "make-whole" redemption premium specified in the indenture, as supplemented, governing the Notes, plus, in either case, accrued and unpaid interest to the Redemption Date (as defined below). The redemption of the Notes is scheduled to occur on February 21, 2025 (the "Redemption Date"). A copy of the Corporation's press release announcing the redemption is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated into this Item 7.01 in its entirety. This Current Report on Form 8-K does not constitute a notice of redemption of the Notes.

The information contained in, or incorporated into, this Item 7.01 is being furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference to such filing.

The full text of this SEC filing can be retrieved at: https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1915657/000119312525024368/d868147d8k.htm

Any exhibits and associated documents for this SEC filing can be retrieved at: https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1915657/000119312525024368/0001193125-25-024368-index.htm

Public companies must file a Form 8-K, or current report, with the SEC generally within four days of any event that could materially affect a company's financial position or the value of its shares.

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250211011808:0/)
