---
title: "News Highlights: Top Company News of the Day - Friday at 1 AM ET"
date: "2025-02-14 14:15:00"
summary: "Chinese Companies Work Around Trump to Keep Selling to AmericansShein, Temu and their suppliers are moving to shift production out of China before they potentially lose a U.S. duty-free provision.Apple and Google Restore TikTok to Mobile App StoresThe iPhone maker and the search giant had pulled the app to comply..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

**Chinese Companies Work Around Trump to Keep Selling to Americans**

Shein, Temu and their suppliers are moving to shift production out of China before they potentially lose a U.S. duty-free provision.

**Apple and Google Restore TikTok to Mobile App Stores**

The iPhone maker and the search giant had pulled the app to comply with a law that was later paused by President Trump after his inauguration.

**Auto Executives Try to Sway Trump on Tariffs, EV Subsidies**

Ford CEO warned lawmakers in Washington that tariffs would hurt U.S. car companies.

**Meta Platforms Raises Dividend by 5%**

The Facebook and Instagram parent outlined a plan to return more money to shareholders, increasing its quarterly dividend by 5%, to 52.5 cents.

**Palo Alto Networks' stock is falling. Here's what was missing from earnings.**

The cybersecurity company says its 'platformization' strategy is working, but its latest report lacked oomph on a bookings metric.

**Airbnb Swings to Profit, Plans to Invest in New Businesses**

Airbnb expects to make $2.23 billion to $2.27 billion in revenue during the first quarter of 2025, below analysts expectations of $2.29 billion, according to FactSet.

**Deere Beats Earnings Estimates, But the Stock Dropped. Here's Why.**

Deere maintains its financial guidance, saying it expects large-equipment sales to decline by 30% in the U.S. in fiscal 2025.

**Roku Stock Soars After Earnings Report**

Roku said that streaming hours on The Roku Channel grew 82% from the previous year.

**Coinbase Stock Jumps on Earnings. People Are Interested in Crypto Again.**

Donald Trump's return to the White House helped the company to blow past analysts' expectations in the fourth quarter.

**Condé Nast, McClatchy and Other Publishers Accuse AI Firm Cohere of Copyright Violations**

The lawsuit accuses the Canadian company of sharing versions of entire articles without permission.

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250214000647:0-news-highlights-top-company-news-of-the-day-friday-at-1-am-et/)
