---
title: "Intel Stock Is Climbing Like It Did Back in the '80s. Here's What's Driving Shares. — Barrons.com"
date: "2025-02-14 03:02:00"
summary: "By Emily DattiloThe '80s are back, at least for Intel.Shares of the chip maker were up 8.2% to $24.32 in Thursday trading. If the stock hangs on to those gains, it will be Intel's fourth straight day of gains. The stock has climbed 27% over that period, its best four-day..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Emily Dattilo

The '80s are back, at least for Intel.

Shares of the chip maker were up 8.2% to $24.32 in Thursday trading. If the stock hangs on to those gains, it will be Intel's fourth straight day of gains. The stock has climbed 27% over that period, its best four-day stretch since 1987 when it gained 38%, according to Dow Jones Market Data.

Intel got a big boost on Tuesday when Vice President JD Vance said at the AI Action Summit in Paris that the Trump administration "will ensure that the most powerful AI systems are built in the U.S. with American designed and manufactured chips." The vice president also said that excessive regulation of AI could stifle companies and that the administration believes AI is "one of the most promising technologies we have seen in generations."

Barron's reported that about 90% of the world's most advanced chips are made by Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing in Taiwan. While TSMC is building plants in the U.S., they will make a fraction of the company's chips.

Intel has tried to offer its chipmaking abilities to other companies, with manufacturing sites across the U.S.

The comments made by Vance triggered a rumor mill among analysts about how the Trump administration could also push TSMC to help Intel.

Baird analysts Tristan Gerra and Tyler Bomba, who rate Intel at Neutral with a price target of $20, say TMSC could send engineers to an Intel semiconductor factory, which could then be spun off into a new entity owned by both companies and operated by TMSC.

"While there is no confirmation and potential completion of this project could be lengthy, we think this move makes sense, further building on Intel prior CEO's focus on the company's core competency, manufacturing, " analysts wrote.

Intel declined to comment. TSMC and The White House did not immediately respond to Barron's request for comment.

Write to Emily Dattilo at emily.dattilo@dowjones.com

This content was created by Barron's, which is operated by Dow Jones & Co. Barron's is published independently from Dow Jones Newswires and The Wall Street Journal.

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250213013310:0/)
