---
title: "Macy's Taps Barbie Cameron as Chief of Stores Amid Turnaround Plan"
date: "2025-02-08 05:51:00"
summary: "By Sabela OjeaMacy's named Barbie Cameron as its chief stores officer to lead the enhancement of the department store chain's footprint.The New York-based company on Friday said that the permanent appointment of Cameron, who in August took over the job on an interim position to replace current president of Equinox..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Sabela Ojea

Macy's named Barbie Cameron as its chief stores officer to lead the enhancement of the department store chain's footprint.

The New York-based company on Friday said that the permanent appointment of Cameron, who in August took over the job on an interim position to replace current president of Equinox Marc Mastronardi, will be effective Feb. 16.

Before that, Cameron had served as the senior vice president and East regional director of Macy's stores, and has spent 37 years at the company.

Cameron will be at the forefront of a set of measures aimed at modernizing Macy's, improving the shopping environment and elevating the customer and colleague experience, the company said.

Macy's, whose businesses include Bloomingdale's and Bluemercury, is in the midst of a turnaround plan that includes closing 150 underperforming stores over the next three years.

In 2025, the company expects to close 66 of these stores with the goal of meeting the expectations of the consumer, according to Chief Executive Tony Spring.

Overall, Macy's is focused on both improving its assortment of brands and improving the customer experience to give the consumer a reason to pay full price, Spring said at a retail conference last month.

Macy's is expected to post earnings for its fiscal fourth quarter in March.

Write to Sabela Ojea at sabela.ojea@wsj.com; @sabelaojeaguix

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250207010846:0/)
