---
title: "Health Care Roundup: Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-12 01:20:00"
summary: "The latest Market Talks covering the Health Care sector. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires at 4:20 ET, 12:20 ET and 16:50 ET.1144 ET - Merck's advanced takeover talks with the U.S. biotech Springworks Therapeutics will likely have a minimal impact on earnings estimates, analysts at DZ Bank say in..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The latest Market Talks covering the Health Care sector. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires at 4:20 ET, 12:20 ET and 16:50 ET.

1144 ET - Merck's advanced takeover talks with the U.S. biotech Springworks Therapeutics will likely have a minimal impact on earnings estimates, analysts at DZ Bank say in a note. Springworks fits into the German company's strategy of focusing on drugs below the blockbuster threshold, they say. However, both companies are too small to predict a guaranteed success of the merger. In principle, a strengthening of the Merck Healthcare division is desirable, DZ Bank analysts say. Merck has long stated its desire for larger acquisitions in the healthcare and life science space, which should be possible even after this transaction, according to the DZ Bank. Shares are flat at 134.95 euros. (helena.smolak@wsj.com)

1130 ET - EssilorLuxottica's earnings are accelerating on a steadily-growing optical market and a potential expansion of its smart glasses portfolio, Jefferies analysts say in a note. The Ray-Ban maker extended a partnership with Meta Platforms to develop smart-eyewear products with a new long-term agreement. Given Meta's ambitions in wearables, a broadened partnership or stakeholding seems possible, the analysts say. Jefferies analysts expect a third generation of smart glasses to be potentially ready for consumers in time for the 2025 holiday-shopping season. The broker upgrades its rating on the stock to buy from hold. Shares are up 1.8% at 277.20 euros. (helena.smolak@wsj.com)

0558 ET - EssilorLuxottica's purchase of Cellview Imaging marks the second acquisition in ophthalmology diagnostics for the European eyecare giant as it pushes into this and other subcategories, RBC Capital Markets' Piral Dadhania says in a note. The Ray-Ban maker said it is buying Canadian startup Cellview, which offers diagnostics via retinal imaging, for an undisclosed sum. The deal follows EssilorLuxottica's July acquisition of Heidelberg Engineering, another ophthalmology diagnostics company, and strengthens its offering, RBC says. EssilorLuxottica is pursuing a structural expansion into selective ophthalmology subcategories, with a move into diagnostics already in progress and potentially in cataracts and contact lenses down the line, the analyst says. Shares rise 1.1%. (adria.calatayud@wsj.com)

0553 ET - Merck KGaA's potential acquisition of SpringWorks Therapeutics puts Merck's healthcare business strategy into question, Equita analyst Davide Marchesin says in a note. The German pharma company previously said it would focus on licensing agreements rather than full acquisitions for its healthcare business. "Taking over SpringWorks Therapeutics would not be in line with such statement, increasing the market skepticism about Merck's strategy," the analyst says. Shares are down 0.1% at 134.85 euros.(helena.smolak@wsj.com)

0552 ET - Merck KGaA's potential acquisition of SpringWorks Therapeutics could boost its cancer-treatment pipeline, but the profitability of the deal is questionable, Equita analyst Davide Marchesin says in a note. "Therapeutics is generating over 350 million euros of annual revenues and it is loss making, therefore one critical question would be if the acquisition would be accretive from year one," the analyst says. The German pharma company's acquisition of the U.S. biopharmaceutical company would be one of the biggest pharma deals for Merck in recent years, potentially amounting to around 4 billion euros with a peak sales potential of over 1.0 billion euros in a few years, he says. Merck's shares are up 0.4% at 135.45 euros. (helena.smolak@wsj.com)

0014 ET - Top Glove's earnings are on the cusp of a progressive recovery this year, UOB Kay Hian analyst Jack Goh says in a note. The glove maker is likely to benefit from U.S. tariff hikes, including the additional 10% levy on Chinese goods, he writes. That could entice U.S. distributors to stop importing medical gloves from Chinese producers and instead buy from Malaysian manufacturers such as Top Glove, he says. The current risk-reward tradeoff appears fair but still provides palatable upside based on 2026 valuations, he adds. UOB KH maintains the stock's hold rating and target price of MYR1.31. Shares last closed at MYR1.22. (amanda.lee@wsj.com)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250211008209:0/)
