---
title: "UK Market Talk Roundup: Brokers Comments"
date: "2025-02-10 21:54:00"
summary: "Broker comments in the UK today. Compiled by Dow Jones Newswires Markets Desk, markets.eu@dowjones.com1354 GMT - Elliott Management hasn't made a hostile approach to the BP board and will seek a more \"suggestivist\" approach to get its ideas across, AJ Bell investment director Russ Mould writes. Elliott is reportedly seeking..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Broker comments in the UK today. Compiled by Dow Jones Newswires Markets Desk, markets.eu@dowjones.com

1354 GMT - Elliott Management hasn't made a hostile approach to the BP board and will seek a more "suggestivist" approach to get its ideas across, AJ Bell investment director Russ Mould writes. Elliott is reportedly seeking better shareholder value but it is hard to see how it can campaign for higher dividends or share buybacks, he writes. In 2024, BP delivered $5 billion in dividends and ran share buybacks worth $7.3 billion, he says. Elliott might want BP to refocus its strategy on oil-and-gas production, better allocate capex, or shift its listing to the U.S., Mould says. Shares trade up 7.3% at 464.65 pence. (adam.whittaker@wsj.com)

1145 GMT - Balfour Beatty's investment portfolio is an attractive asset, Panmure Liberum analysts Joe Brent and Joe Walker say in a research note. The U.K builder's portfolio has made a net distribution to the company every year since 2014, the analysts say. The lowest distribution was in 2020, during which no sales occurred due to the coronavirus pandemic, they say. The business should help to underpin distributions to Balfour's shareholders via dividends and share buybacks, they say. News on share buybacks is expected to be announced alongside the full-year results on March 12, they say. Shares trade 0.9% higher at 470 pence. (nina.kienle@wsj.com)

0951 GMT - Johnson Matthey's Chairman Patrick Thomas not seeking reelection, and the naming of Richard Pike as CFO designate could be seen as greater willingness, or urgency, to improve the company's financial metrics, Jefferies analysts say. These moves could also provide share price support, they say in a note. The move by the chemicals company comes after a period of enhanced pressure from Standard Investments, its largest shareholder, which has called for greater focus on cash generation and shareholder returns, Jefferies says. Shares are up 1% at 1,436 pence, and are up 7.2% in the year to date.(anthony.orunagoriainoff@dowjones.com)

0844 GMT - Elliott Management could force BP to reorganize its business and make changes to its board after it was reported the hedge fund has built a stake in the British energy giant, Jefferies analysts Giacomo Romeo and Kai Ye Loh write. Elliott could look to remove BP Chairman Helge Lund at the next AGM in late April or early May, the analysts write. Increasing shareholder returns by maximizing free-cash-flow generation via reduced capex and increased divestments would be a key goal, they add. It may also seek to refocus BP's strategy on traditional oil and gas activities and reduce exposure to low-carbon assets, they add. Shares trade up 7.4% at 465 pence. This is BP's best one-day rise since summer 2023. (adam.whittaker@wsj.com)

0618 GMT - BP's underperforming shares should be boosted by the introduction of a serious activist investor, RBC Capital Markets analysts Biraj Borkhataria and Adnan Dhanani write. Over the weekend, there were unconfirmed reports that Elliott Management has built a significant stake in the British energy company. Any activist investor is likely to call for a change in chairperson and might put pressure on BP to spin off some divisions, the analysts write. Its U.S. shale division, which is worth around $20 billion, its $10 billion lubricants division, and its marketing and retail business, valued at up to $40 billion, are potential target areas, the analyst write. BP's shares closed Friday at 433.25 pence and are down 9.45% over the past 12 months. (adam.whittaker@wsj.com)

Contact us in London. +44-20-7842-9288   
Markettalk.eu@dowjones.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250210005630:0/)
