---
title: "Nike bonds sell off, mirroring the sneaker maker's stock slide"
date: "2025-02-08 03:50:00"
summary: "By James RogersThere has been significantly more selling than buying in Nike's bonds, although investment-grade spreads have hardly budgedNike Inc. bonds have seen more net selling over the last seven days, mirroring the recent decline in the sneaker maker's stock, according to the latest data from data-solutions provider BondCliQ Inc.Nike..."
categories:
  - "MarketWatch"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "MarketWatch"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By James Rogers

There has been significantly more selling than buying in Nike's bonds, although investment-grade spreads have hardly budged

Nike Inc. bonds have seen more net selling over the last seven days, mirroring the recent decline in the sneaker maker's stock, according to the latest data from data-solutions provider BondCliQ Inc.

Nike (NKE) shares have fallen 9% in the last five days, and the stock is down 33% in the last 12 months. Set against this backdrop, Nike's nine bonds have seen significantly more selling than buying since Jan. 31, as the following chart from BondCliQ shows.

In December, new Nike Chief Executive Elliott Hill launched an ambitious plan to revitalize the sportswear giant.

After receiving multiple downgrades last year, Nike got another downgrade Friday when Citi cited the challenges facing the company as it attempts its turnaround.

Related: Nike gets another downgrade as Citi points to turnaround challenges

However, investment-grade spreads of Nike's bonds have hardly budged since the start of 2025, as the following chart shows. The spread refers to the compensation required by investors, which is related to the risk level of the corporate debt they are taking on.

Nike has AA-rated bonds. The following chart shows Nike's nine outstanding bonds by maturity bucket.

Shares of Nike were down nearly 3% in Friday afternoon trading, outpacing the S&P 500 index's SPX decline of 0.8%.

Related: Nike's stock sees biggest drop ever as some analysts question company's leadership after downbeat forecast

-James Rogers

This content was created by MarketWatch, which is operated by Dow Jones & Co. MarketWatch is published independently from Dow Jones Newswires and The Wall Street Journal.

[MarketWatch](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_SN20250207012902:0/)
