---
title: "News Highlights: Top Global Markets News of the Day - Monday at 3 PM ET"
date: "2025-02-11 04:00:00"
summary: "Nasdaq Leads U.S. Stocks HigherU.S. stocks rose, with markets mostly shrugging as President Trump launched another broadside against America's trading partners.Trump's Next Round of Tariffs-25% on Steel and Aluminum-Won't Be So Easily AvertedReciprocal tariffs on trading partners are also in the mix as officials say \"punitive\" tariffs on Mexico and..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

**Nasdaq Leads U.S. Stocks Higher**

U.S. stocks rose, with markets mostly shrugging as President Trump launched another broadside against America's trading partners.

**Trump's Next Round of Tariffs-25% on Steel and Aluminum-Won't Be So Easily Averted**

Reciprocal tariffs on trading partners are also in the mix as officials say "punitive" tariffs on Mexico and Canada were only a small slice of trade agenda.

**Republicans Bank on Growth Boom to Claim Budget Math Adds Up**

The approach is crucial to convincing GOP colleagues-and voters-that Trump's plans won't make U.S. finances worse.

**For CEOs and Bankers, the Trump Euphoria Is Fading Fast**

The deals market had its quietest January in a decade, curtailed by the uncertainty delivered in the president's first weeks.

**France Taps Nuclear Power in Race for AI Supremacy**

Macron aims to dedicate a gigawatt of nuclear power to create one of the world's largest AI-computing facilities.

**China's Consumer Inflation Accelerated in January**

China's consumer inflation accelerated in January as food and service prices climbed ahead of the Lunar New Year holiday, official data showed Sunday.

**Trump Tells U.S. Treasury to Stop Minting Pennies**

President Trump called the minting of the coin a waste of money, reviving a longstanding debate about getting rid of the penny.

**China's Strategy in Trade War: Threaten U.S. Tech Companies**

Officials in Beijing are building a list of potential targets for antitrust probes, hoping to influence tech executives close to President Trump.

**Tech Firms Want to Upend the Pentagon. The Old Defense Guard Has Lessons for Them.**

Upstart defense contractors such as Palantir are on the rise. In the future, though, they may not be immune to the problems that have burned their legacy peers.

**Vance, Musk Criticize Federal Judge for Blocking DOGE From Treasury System**

The broadside against the court order signals tensions ahead between the White House and the judiciary.

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250210008885:0/)
