---
title: "Global Forex and Fixed Income Roundup: Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-10 21:23:00"
summary: "The latest Market Talks covering FX and Fixed Income. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.0823 ET - The cost of insuring euro credit against default using credit default swaps edges lower as markets settle after the French budget passed through parliament last week and the Bank of..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The latest Market Talks covering FX and Fixed Income. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.

0823 ET - The cost of insuring euro credit against default using credit default swaps edges lower as markets settle after the French budget passed through parliament last week and the Bank of England cut interest rates by 25 basis points. Falls are limited, however, as tariff risks loom, with U.S. President Trump announcing plans for 25% tariffs on steel and aluminum imports on Sunday. Markets could be underestimating the threat of a trade war, asset management company, Edmond de Rothschild, says in a note. The iTraxx Europe Crossover index which tracks euro junk bond credit default swaps falls 2 basis points to 290bps, S&P Global Market Intelligence data show. The iTraxx Europe Senior Financials which tracks euro investment-grade financial bonds, declines 1bp to 59bps. (miriam.mukuru@wsj.com)

0751 ET - Dutch telecommunications company KPN is marketing a new euro-denominated 10-year bond. The deal offers investors a generous valuation, with an initial price talk of mid-swap rate plus 150 basis points, CreditSights analysts say in a note. The initial price talk implies around 45 basis points new issue concession compared with other similar KPN bonds, the analysts say. "We expect the initial price talk to be tightened up, and we would be buyers north of mid-swap rate plus 120 basis points (around 3.5% yield)," CreditSights says. KPN credit is likely to perform in line with other credit from similar companies in the same sector, says CreditSights, which has a market perform rating on the company's debt. (miriam.mukuru@wsj.com)

0731 ET - The Canadian dollar is at risk of renewed depreciation given the continued threat of tariffs from President Trump, Monex Europe analysts say in a note. The currency recovered some ground after Trump last week announced a 30-day suspension of tariffs on Canada and Mexico. However, tariff risks remain elevated, the analysts say. "Markets will watch for further policy concessions from Canada and whether the tariff suspension becomes permanent." Canada's jobs report on Friday will also be key with employment trends likely influencing Bank of Canada interest rate expectations. USD/CAD falls 0.3% to 1.4338. (renae.dyer@wsj.com)

0634 ET - The Turkish lira hit a record low against the dollar overnight and faces increased volatility in coming months as Turkey's central bank could cut interest rates further despite elevated inflation, Commerzbank analyst Tatha Ghose says in a note. The bank's Governor Fatih Karahan said Friday a pause in rate cuts was possible if the inflation outlook deteriorates but this failed to lift the lira. His comments came as the bank raised its year-end inflation forecast to 24%. A signal that rates could be raised might have reassured markets, Ghose says. However, Karahan's remarks sound "hollow" and suggest he doesn't view the current outlook to be problematic. That means rate cuts could continue. USD/TRY rises 0.1% to 36.0029 after earlier hitting a high of 36.0643, according to FactSet. (renae.dyer@wsj.com)

0626 ET - A widening of the 10-year U.S. Treasury-German Bund yield spread towards 220 basis points would promp Jefferies to initiate a short position in Bunds versus Treasurys, says global economist Mohit Kumar in a note. The yield differential between the two is currently 212 basis points, according to Tradeweb. A spread widening could happen either by a faster rise in U.S. Treasury yields than in Bund yields, or by Bund yields declining faster than Treasury yields. (emese.bartha@wsj.com)

0624 ET - An estimate of the neutral interest rate by the European Central Bank, or by any other model, is of questionable value in gauging the degree of policy restriction, BNP Paribas Markets 360 analysts say in a note. The neutral rate is a theoretical rate which neither stimulates nor restricts the economy. It's also uncertain how policymakers think about the neutral rate when it comes to calibrating policy, they say. The ECB announced last week that its economists estimate the neutral rate at between 1.75% and 2.25%. (emese.bartha@wsj.com)

0610 ET - Yields on euro-denominated and sterling-denominated corporate bonds declined last week, tracking falls in sovereign bond yields after the French budget passed through parliament and the Bank of England cut interest rates by 25 basis points, CreditSights analysts say in a note. Average yields on euro investment-grade bonds fell 5 basis points to 3.1% while average yields on sterling investment-grade bonds declined 6bps to 5.3%, the analysts say. New supply of euro and sterling corporate bonds "showed no signs of slowing down," the analysts say. (miriam.mukuru@wsj.com)

0550 ET - U.S. President Trump's tariffs are likely to depress the Australian dollar against its Singapore counterpart in 2025, similar to the impact observed in 2018-2019, according to Philip Wee of DBS Group Research. While the U.S. has trade surpluses with both Australia and Singapore, the currencies of the countries aren't immune to the global growth risks posed by Trump's tariffs, the senior forex strategist writes in a note. He expects AUD/SGD to weaken to the 0.80-0.85 range. As a free-floating commodity-led currency, the Australian dollar will be more vulnerable if Trump's universal tariffs negatively impact the global economy and financial markets, fueling risk aversion, he says. Meanwhile, the Singapore dollar is less volatile and "a more attractive currency driven by an exchange rate policy backed by strong fundamentals," Wee adds. (farah.elias@wsj.com)

0545 ET - U.K. government bonds, or gilts, appear more attractive than U.S. Treasurys on a relative-value basis, TD Securities rates strategist Pooja Kumra says in a note ahead of a syndication of 10-year gilts due this week. "Relative-value wise we see value in holding gilts versus U.S. Treasurys...as a tactical trade." Yields on 10-year gilts have dropped from the multi-decade highs of around 4.90% in mid-January and last trade at 4.463%, Tradeweb data show. "Gilts have outperformed on crossmarket basis," she says. Investors are ready to buy the new 10-year 4.5% gilt at this week's syndication, where GBP10 billion is expected to be sold, Kumra says. (miriam.mukuru@wsj.com)

0534 ET - Germany's building-materials production could surprise further this year, Stifel analysts Tobias Woerner and Augustin Cendre say in a research note. The production of building materials in Germany was up 7.2% in December and is pointing to a nascent recovery, the analysts say. There is also now a clear volume divergence between Germany and the U.S., with Germany up high-single digits and the U.S down low-single digits in December, the analysts say. This divergence is expected to continue, they say. (nina.kienle@wsj.com)

0457 ET - The German 10-year Bund yield has room to fall, says Insight Investment's April Larusse. "Core/German bond yields are expected to decline slightly as 10-year yields gravitate toward 2.10%," the head of investment specialists says in a note. Growth in the eurozone is expected to remain soft, although Insight Investment expects some modest improvement in GDP growth from the low base of 2024, to around 1.4% in 2025 and 1.5% in 2026. With inflation continuing to recede slowly, the European Central Bank will carry on with rate cuts, taking the deposit rate to 2% from 2.75% currently. The 10-year Bund yield falls 0.5 basis point to 2.377%, according to Tradeweb. (emese.bartha@wsj.com)

0455 ET - Asia looks most exposed to Trump's reciprocal trade tariff proposal, Nomura economists write in a note. Trump has said he will announce such tariffs this week and that they would take effect almost immediately. Countries with the largest tariff gap with the U.S., other than China, are India and Thailand, putting them most at risk, the economists write. However, this reciprocal tariff position may be tempered in practice as the U.S. has broad comprehensive free-trade agreements with several major trade partners, Nomura notes. There is a risk of escalation via other forms of tariffs that Trump has suggested, including on steel, aluminum, pharmaceuticals, and could be China and Europe-specific, it adds. (kimberley.kao@wsj.com)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250210005161:0/)
