---
title: "Inflation Is Killing Bond Returns. What to Own Instead. — Barrons.com"
date: "2025-02-13 04:12:00"
summary: "By Ian SalisburyInflation worries are killing bond returns — again.That means investors who own bonds primarily for income may want to think about riskier, higher-yielding alternatives such as dividend stocks.Inflation was supposed to be under control, giving bonds a chance to shine. However, the consumer price index for January came..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Ian Salisbury

Inflation worries are killing bond returns — again.

That means investors who own bonds primarily for income may want to think about riskier, higher-yielding alternatives such as dividend stocks.

Inflation was supposed to be under control, giving bonds a chance to shine. However, the consumer price index for January came in hotter than expected on Wednesday, hitting 3% for the first time in seven months.

The result rocked stock and bond markets: the S&P 500 tumbled 0.6%, while yields on 10-year Treasury bonds jumped 0.124 percentage points to 4.655%.

Since bond prices fall when yields rise, that translated into losses for investors. The iShares Core U.S. Aggregate exchange-traded fund, a popular index that represents that bond market, fell 0.7%.

Stocks and bonds falling together is a worst-case scenario for investors — a scenario reminiscent of 2022, when inflation peaked at just under 9%. At the time, supposedly safe 60/40 portfolios, which were made up of 60% in stocks and 40% in bonds, returned a dismal negative 15% — only slightly better than the S&P 500's 18% decline, according to Vanguard data.

Today's bond investors are in some ways better off than the ones in 2022: the 10-year Treasury yield sits comfortably above 4.5%, compared with less than 2% three years ago. Those higher yields could help offset bond price declines, making it easier for investors to earn positive total returns even if interest rates continue to rise.

It's also worth noting that top-flight bonds, especially Treausurys, remain a key safe-haven asset. Earlier this month, when President Donald Trump threatened a trade war with Canada and Mexico, prices for 10-year Treasury notes rallied despite the prospect of tariff-related inflation as investors instinctively sought protection amid geopolitical uncertainty.

But even if today's bond yields look better than 2022's, that is not saying much for income investors. With inflation stuck around 3%, real yields — the extra income investors can expect over and above inflation — are still only about 1.5%. That is nothing to write home about.

One option is to shift some assets into cash — top money-market funds yield 4.3% to 4.4%, according to Crane Data — or at least shorter-term bonds. With a flat yield curve, investors won't sacrifice much in terms of income, while protecting themselves against price declines if rates continue to drift upward.

"Owning longer duration rates exposure looks risky to us in 2025," wrote BlackRock strategists Gargi Chaudhuri and Kristy Akullian in January, touting the firm's iShares 3-7 Year Treasury Bond ETF. "Solid economic growth and the possibility of inflationary policy measures have dampened our enthusiasm for extending duration."

Investors who are more willing to take risk and concerned with healthy payouts can consider other options. The Schwab U.S. Dividend ETF isn't a haven — shares declined 0.8% on Wednesday. However, the ETF boasts a 3.7% yield — and as a stock fund, it promises far more upside than a fund focused on bonds.

"We previously increased exposure to real assets, with a preference for energy infrastructure and MLPs," wrote Lisa Shalett, chief investment officer at Morgan Stanley Wealth Management in a note Monday. "Competitive yields and expectations for continued capital discipline amid stable oil and gas prices underpin our decision, as does hedging against geopolitical risks."

Write to Ian Salisbury at ian.salisbury@barrons.com

This content was created by Barron's, which is operated by Dow Jones & Co. Barron's is published independently from Dow Jones Newswires and The Wall Street Journal.

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250212011661:0/)
