---
title: "Market Talk Roundup: Latest on U.S. Politics"
date: "2025-02-10 23:47:00"
summary: "The latest Market Talks covering U.S. politics. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.1047 ET - Biotechnology is likely to stay resilient despite tariffs, Benchmark analyst Bruce Jackson expects. While development costs may rise, there could be more mergers and acquisitions in the industry if there is less..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The latest Market Talks covering U.S. politics. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.

1047 ET - Biotechnology is likely to stay resilient despite tariffs, Benchmark analyst Bruce Jackson expects. While development costs may rise, there could be more mergers and acquisitions in the industry if there is less scrutiny from the Federal Trade Commission under the Trump administration. Pharma companies looking to bolster pipelines could also drive merger activity. The metabolic, central nervous system and oncology biotech industries are expected to grow while vaccines and rare diseases are more likely to face challenges. (katherine.hamilton@wsj.com)

1043 ET - Tariffs could lead to shortages and higher prices for pharmaceuticals and medical devices, Benchmark analyst Bruce Jackson says. Trump has said his tariffs are intended to bring jobs back to the U.S., but pharmaceutical companies may be hesitant to build manufacturing capacity domestically, especially in areas where profit margins are thin, like generic drugs and hospital supplies, Jackson says. It could also take up to two years to start making medical equipment in the U.S., and up to five years to launch drug manufacturing facilities, Jackson adds. (katherine.hamilton@wsj.com)

1039 ET - Prices of euro-denominated corporate bonds exposed to potential U.S. tariffs don't sufficiently reflect the risk of such tariffs, BNP Paribas credit strategists say in a note. The 'Tariff Risk Premium' which measures the spread between tariff-sensitive names and euro non-financial bonds, shows that only modest risk is priced in, they say. After Trump's first announcement on plans for tariffs on goods from Canada, Mexico and China following his inauguration, euro credit spreads widened in line with macro weakness, but "without much differentiation." (miriam.mukuru@wsj.com)

0941 ET - The USDA reports that Mexico has purchased 365,000 metric tons of U.S. corn for delivery in the 2024/25 marketing year. Even with an increasingly-tense world trade environment, Mexico is still buying large volumes of U.S. grains. The sale also comes after Mexico dropped its restrictions on GMO corn. Most-active corn futures on the CBOT are unchanged, with trading expected to be tentative ahead of tomorrow's WASDE, although no big revelations for the U.S. corn crop are expected. Traders are focused on how the USDA may change it's estimates on South American production. (kirk.maltais@wsj.com)

0928 ET - The dollar weakens against most major currencies while dollar indexes rise, as markets react to a new set of tariffs announced by President Trump over the weekend. Both the ICE's DXY gauge and the broader WSJ Dollar Index rise around 0.1%, while the greenback weakens 0.2% against the euro and strengthens 0.3% versus the yen. The 25% levy on all steel and aluminum imports to the U.S. looks less likely to be avoided the way previous country-targeting tariffs were. Goldman Sachs' Stuart Jenkins writes that "we think they would have a more durable Dollar impact that the market is not yet fully pricing." (paulo.trevisani@wsj.com; @ptrevisani)

0911 ET - Treasury yields hover around Friday's settlement levels as the week once again starts with the threat of tariffs announced over the weekend. This time around, there seems to be less room for negotiation to avoid a 25% levy on steel and aluminium. Questions remain about how tariffs will impact inflation and Fed decisions on interest rates. Markets are mostly pricing not more than one cut this year, CME data show. That could be a sign of growing concerns about inflation. Chair Powell has his semiannual report to Congress tomorrow at the Senate and Wednesday at the House. The 10-year is at 4.486% and the two-year at 4.271%. (paulo.trevisani@wsj.com; @ptrevisani)

0828 ET - The euro could strengthen against the dollar if the EU avoids harsh tariffs from Trump, Morgan Stanley analysts say in a note. "Our base case includes gradual, targeted tariffs on the EU later in 2025, preceded by a reinstatement of the Section 232 steel and aluminum tariffs," they say. Such targeted tariffs would unlikely have a significant impact on euro-area economic growth. Morgan Stanley continues to advise buying the euro, targeting a level of $1.08. The euro is last up 0.2% at $1.0316. (renae.dyer@wsj.com)

0803 ET - Base metal prices are mixed, with LME three-month copper down 0.3% at $9,408 a metric ton and LME three-month aluminum up 0.2% at $2,632.50 a ton. LME aluminum has been holding steady after President Trump said he will impose 25% tariffs on all imports of aluminum and steel into the U.S. The U.S. imports significant volumes of aluminum and steel from Canada, and with Trump back in the White House, uncertainty and unpredictability are running high, ING analysts say in a note. A prolonged trade conflict will slow global growth and hit industrial metals demand, ING says. In 2018, Trump imposed 10% and 25% tariffs on imported aluminum and steel respectively to boost domestic production--the duties on Mexico and Canada were lifted a year later after a new free trade agreement with the U.S., ING adds. (joseph.hoppe@wsj.com)

0758 ET - ArcelorMittal says urgent support is needed to bolster the competitiveness and sustainability of European steelmaking, just as the U.S. is expected to put 25% tariffs on steel and aluminium imports. The Luxembourg-based steelmaker said it supports trade measures designed to protect the steel sector from unfair trade practices and address the glut in market. It says the steel industry is contending with significant excess global capacity with the market in Europe facing subdued demand and record-high imports. Foreign steel imports to Europe hold a 27% market share, ArcelorMittal says. Shares trade down 2.2% at 26.77 euros. (pierre.bertrand@wsj.com)

0731 ET - The Canadian dollar is at risk of renewed depreciation given the continued threat of tariffs from President Trump, Monex Europe analysts say in a note. The currency recovered some ground after Trump last week announced a 30-day suspension of tariffs on Canada and Mexico. However, tariff risks remain elevated, the analysts say. "Markets will watch for further policy concessions from Canada and whether the tariff suspension becomes permanent." Canada's jobs report on Friday will also be key with employment trends likely influencing Bank of Canada interest rate expectations. USD/CAD falls 0.3% to 1.4338. (renae.dyer@wsj.com)

0615 ET - Shares of U.S. steelmakers rise premarket after President Trump said he plans to impose 25% tariffs Monday on steel and aluminum imports. U.S. Steel shares are up 8.3% in premarket trading after closing last week at $36.93. Nucor shares are also up 8.5%, while Steel Dynamics shares are 5.7% higher. Nucor shares closed last week at $130.26 while Steel Dynamics closed at $126.71. President Trump announced plans to introduce 25% tariffs on imports of steel and aluminum, with the levies applying to every nation exporting the metals to the U.S. (pierre.bertrand@wsj.com)

0517 ET - U.S. tariffs on steel imports would only have a very limited impact on Thyssenkrupp at present, a spokesman for the company says. Europe is the German industrial and steel group's main market for steel and what the company does export to the U.S. is negligible and mostly concerns high-quality products, the company says. Sales in the U.S. are mainly from Thyssenkrupp's trading business and its automotive supply business, operations which are supported by a significant share of local manufacturing, Thyssenkrupp says. The company adds that much of the production for U.S. customers takes place within the U.S., which minimizes the risks associated with tariffs. Thyssenkrupp says, however, that it is monitoring developments. Shares trade up 0.07% to 4.59 euros. (pierre.bertrand@wsj.com)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250210007022:0/)
