---
title: "Acadia Realty Trust Reports Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2024 Operating Results"
date: "2025-02-12 05:30:00"
summary: "(21:30 GMT) *Acadia Realty Trust 4Q FFO 30c/Shr &gt;AKR(21:30 GMT) *Acadia Realty Trust 4Q Adjusted FFO/Shr 32c &gt;AKR(21:30 GMT) *Acadia Realty Trust 4Q EPS 7c &gt;AKR(21:30 GMT) *Acadia Realty Trust 4Q Net $8.52M &gt;AKR(21:30 GMT) *Acadia Realty Trust 4Q Rev $93.3M &gt;AKR(21:30 GMT) Press Release: Acadia Realty Trust Reports Fourth..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

**(21:30 GMT)** \*Acadia Realty Trust 4Q FFO 30c/Shr >AKR  
**(21:30 GMT)** \*Acadia Realty Trust 4Q Adjusted FFO/Shr 32c >AKR  
**(21:30 GMT)** \*Acadia Realty Trust 4Q EPS 7c >AKR  
**(21:30 GMT)** \*Acadia Realty Trust 4Q Net $8.52M >AKR  
**(21:30 GMT)** \*Acadia Realty Trust 4Q Rev $93.3M >AKR  
**(21:30 GMT)** Press Release: Acadia Realty Trust Reports Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2024 Operating Results

Acadia Realty Trust Reports Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2024 Operating Results

* Fourth Quarter 2024 GAAP Net Earnings of $0.07 per share and FFO Before Special Items of $0.32 per share
* Core Same-Property NOI Growth of 5.7% for the Fourth Quarter of 2024
* Completed Approximately $611 million of Accretive Core and Investment Management Acquisitions during the Fourth Quarter of 2024 and 2025 To-Date (Approximately $353 million at Acadia's Pro-rata Share)
* Increased its Quarterly Dividend by 5.3% for the First Quarter of 2025
* 2025 Projected FFO Before Special Items of $1.35 at the Mid-Point (5.5% Growth)
* 2025 Projected Same-Property NOI Growth of 5-6%

RYE, N.Y.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--February 11, 2025--

Acadia Realty Trust ("Acadia" or the "Company") today reported operating results for the quarter ended December 31, 2024. All per share amounts are on a fully-diluted basis, where applicable. Acadia owns and operates a high-quality real estate portfolio of street and open-air retail properties in the nation's most dynamic retail corridors ("Core" or "Core Portfolio"), along with an investment management platform that targets opportunistic and value-add investments through its institutional co-investment vehicles ("Investment Management").

Kenneth F. Bernstein, President and CEO of Acadia, commented:   
------------------------------------------------------------------------------   
 "We concluded the year with strong performance from all of the key drivers of   
 our business. We delivered same-property NOI growth of 5.7%, driven by the   
 strong performance of our street portfolio. Adding to the strong performance   
 of our existing assets, we completed over $600 million of accretive Core and   
 Investment Management acquisitions. The street retail additions to our core   
 portfolio in New York City (SoHo, Williamsburg, and the West Village), and   
 Washington D.C. (Georgetown), further expand our highly differentiated   
 portfolio of best-in-class retail in the major must-have retail corridors in   
 the United States. To fund our expansion, we have raised approximately $740   
 million of equity, which funded our acquisitions and redevelopments, along   
 with providing the dry powder to add additional accretive investment   
 opportunities. As we begin the new year, we are well positioned to continue   
 to deliver strong internal growth through the continued strength of our Core   
 portfolio, as well as accretive external growth."   
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

FINANCIAL RESULTS

A complete reconciliation, in dollars and per share amounts, of (i) net income attributable to Acadia to FFO (as defined by NAREIT and Before Special Items) attributable to common shareholders and common OP Unit holders and (ii) operating income to NOI is included in the financial tables of this release. The amounts discussed below are net of noncontrolling interests and all per share amounts are on a fully-diluted basis.

```
   
                                                        Financial Results   
                                                       -------------------   
                                                         2024      2023   
                                                          4Q        4Q   
   
Net earnings per share attributable to Acadia           $0.07     ($0.02)   
Depreciation of real estate and amortization of   
 leasing costs (net of noncontrolling interest   
 share)                                                  0.22      0.28   
Impairment charges (net of noncontrolling interest   
share)                                                   0.01       --   
                                                       --------  ---------   
NAREIT Funds From Operations per share attributable   
 to Common Shareholders and Common OP Unit holders      $0.30      $0.26   
Net unrealized holding loss (gain)(1)                   (0.01)      --   
Funds From Operations Before Special Items and   
 Realized Gains and Promotes per share attributable   
 to Common Shareholders and Common OP Unit holders      $0.29      $0.26   
Realized gains and promotes(1)                           0.03      0.02   
Funds From Operations Before Special Items per share   
 attributable to Common Shareholders and Common OP   
 Unit holders                                           $0.32      $0.28   
   
   
________   
      1.    It is the Company's policy to exclude unrealized gains and losses   
            from FFO Before Special items and to include realized gains   
            related to the Company's investment in Albertsons. The Company   
            realized investment gains of $3.7 million for the quarter ended   
            December 31, 2024, and investment gains of $2.3 million for the   
            quarter ended December 31, 2023. Refer to the "Notes to Financial   
            Highlights" page 15 of this document.   
   
   
 Net Income Net income for the quarter ended December 31, 2024, was $8.2   
 million, or $0.07 per share. This compares with net loss of $1.6 million, or   
 $0.02 per share for the quarter ended December 31, 2023. NAREIT FFO NAREIT   
 Funds From Operations ("NAREIT FFO") for the quarter ended December 31, 2024   
 was $37.8 million, or $0.30 per share. This compares with NAREIT FFO of $26.4   
 million, or $0.26 per share, for the quarter ended December 31, 2023. FFO   
 Before Special Items Funds From Operations ("FFO") Before Special Items for   
 the quarter ended December 31, 2024 was $40.5 million, or $0.32 per share,   
 which includes $3.7 million, or $0.03 per share, of realized investment gains   
 from the sale of 195,000 shares of Albertsons' stock. This compares with FFO   
 Before Special Items of $28.4 million, or $0.28 per share for the quarter   
 ended December 31, 2023, which includes $2.3 million, or $0.02 per share, of   
 realized investment gains from the sale of Albertsons' stock.   
------------------------------------------------------------------------------   
 
```

CORE PORTFOLIO PERFORMANCE

Same-Property NOI Same-Property Net Operating Income ("NOI") growth,   
 excluding redevelopments, increased 5.7% for the fourth quarter, driven by   
 growth in excess of 12% from the street portfolio, and increased 5.7% for the   
 year ended December 31, 2024, at the high end of guidance. Leasing and   
 Occupancy Update As of December 31, 2024, sequentially increased Core   
 Portfolio occupancy percentages by 110 and 140 basis points, respectively, to   
 95.8% leased and 93.1% occupied compared to 94.7% leased and 91.7% occupied   
 as of September 30, 2024. Core Signed Not Open ("SNO") pipeline (excluding   
 redevelopments) of $7.7 million of annualized base rent ("ABR") at December   
 31, 2024, which represented approximately 5.1% of in-place rents. During the   
 fourth quarter, ABR of approximately $5.3 million of leases commenced, and   
 $3.0 million of new leases were added to the SNO pipeline. For the year ended   
 December 31, 2024, conforming GAAP and cash leasing spreads on new leases   
 were 63% and 34%, respectively, primarily driven by new street leases in   
 Manhattan, NY, Chicago, IL and Washington, D.C.During the fourth quarter,   
 conforming GAAP and cash leasing spreads on new leases were 46% and 13%,   
 respectively, primarily driven by suburban leases. In January 2025, the   
 Company signed a new lease with a large international grocer to replace Whole   
 Foods at City Center in San Francisco, California. Additionally, the Company   
 and Whole Foods have reached an agreement to terminate. The Company has   
 received payments of approximately $6 million and $2 million that it   
 anticipates recognizing as rental income within its Core NOI and termination   
 income, respectively, during the first quarter of 2025.   
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ACQUISITION ACTIVITY

During the fourth quarter of 2024 and 2025 to-date, the Company completed approximately $611 million of acquisitions, which is comprised of $306 million of Core acquisitions and $305 million (or $47 million at the Company's pro-rata share) of Investment Management acquisitions.

Amounts below are exclusive of transaction costs.

Core Portfolio Acquisitions - Fourth Quarter of 2024 and 2025 To-Date

Completed: Approximately $306 million Street Retail Investments

* Georgetown, Washington, D.C. In January 2025, the Company acquired an additional 48% interest (increasing its existing 20% interest to approximately 68%) in a portfolio of properties which are primarily located in Georgetown, Washington D.C. The 48% interest was acquired for a purchase price of approximately $117 million, based upon a gross portfolio value of approximately $245 million. The Company will manage the day-to-day operations alongside its joint venture partner, EastBanc. The portfolio consists of 36 retail stores located along M Street in Georgetown, which has established itself as one of the nation's top retail destinations.
* SoHo, Manhattan, New York. During the fourth quarter and year-to-date 2025, the Company completed the acquisition of approximately $123 million of Street retail assets in SoHo, Manhattan, New York. These acquisitions expanded the Company's existing SoHo Collection to 15 properties and 20 retail stores in Manhattan's premier retail corridor.   
   --   
   92-94 Greene Street, Manhattan, New York. As previously announced, in October 2024 the Company closed on 92-94 Greene Street for approximately $43 million. This acquisition provides near-term opportunity for accretive re-leasing and increases the Company's Greene Street holdings to 9 buildings and 9 retail stores.   
   --   
   106 Spring Street, Manhattan, New York. In January 2025, the Company completed the acquisition of 106 Spring Street for $55 million, which is located on the corner of Spring and Mercer Streets. It is leased to the athleisure brand, Vuori.   
   --   
   73 Wooster Street, Manhattan, New York. In January 2025, the Company completed the acquisition of 73 Wooster Street for approximately $25 million, which is located between Spring and Broome Streets. The retail property is leased to Reiss and Moschino. This acquisition provides an opportunity for accretive-mark-to-market releasing.
* Williamsburg, Brooklyn, New York. As previously announced, during the fourth quarter the Company completed the acquisition of approximately $53 million of Street retail assets in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, expanding the Company's ownership in Williamsburg to approximately 5 properties and 15 retail stores.   
   --   
   123-129 North 6th Street, Brooklyn, New York. In October 2024 the Company completed the acquisition of a portfolio of assets on 123-129 North 6th Street for $35 million. The portfolio offers below-market rents, accretive re-leasing, and an opportunity for retail expansion on vacant land acquired with frontage on Berry Street.   
   --   
   109 North 6th Street, Brooklyn New York. In October 2024 the Company completed the acquisition of 109 North 6th Street for approximately $18 million, which is adjacent to its 123-129 North 6th Street acquisition. The asset is leased to Madewell.
* Henderson Avenue Expansion, Dallas, Texas. In the fourth quarter, the Company completed the acquisitions of three additional parcels on Henderson Avenue for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $13 million. These additions are adjacent to the Company's existing holdings and provide for additional expansion and lease-up opportunities along with enhancing continuity and giving greater control over the direction of this emerging retail corridor. As previously announced, in October 2024, the Company, in partnership with Ignite-Rebees, commenced construction for the Henderson Avenue Corridor Expansion to transform the corridor into a vibrant, walkable, street retail destination. These acquisitions further connect the Company's existing operating Henderson assets, which were initially acquired by the Company in 2022 for approximately $85 million.

Investment Management Acquisitions - Fourth Quarter of 2024

Completed: Approximately $305 million (or $47 million at the Company's pro-rata share)

* The LINQ Promenade, Las Vegas, Nevada. During the fourth quarter, the Company through its Investment Management Platform, formed a joint venture with TPG Real Estate to acquire the LINQ Promenade on the Las Vegas Strip for a gross purchase price of approximately $275 million (the Company retained a 15% ownership interest in the joint venture). The Company will manage the day-to-day operations entitling it to earn asset management, property management, and leasing fees, along with the opportunity to earn a promote upon the ultimate disposition of the asset. The LINQ Promenade is a 180,000 square foot open-air retail, dining, and entertainment destination. This transaction offers accretive re-leasing and additional ancillary revenue opportunities.
* The Walk at Highwoods Preserve, Tampa, Florida. As previously announced, in October 2024, the Company, through its Investment Management Platform, entered into a joint venture with funds managed by the Private Real Estate Group of Cohen & Steers to purchase the Walk at Highwoods Preserve, an open-air shopping center, for a gross purchase price of approximately $30 million. The Company retained a 20% interest and will manage day-to-day operations of the investment.

BALANCE SHEET

* Equity Activity: During the fourth quarter of 2024 and 2025 to-date the Company raised net proceeds of $276.8 million through the issuance of 11.2 million shares under its at-the-market issuance program on a forward basis at an average price of $24.77 per share. To-date, the Company has not settled any of the 11.2 million shares. As previously disclosed, during the third quarter of 2024, the Company raised net proceeds of $131.6 million from the issuance of 5.75 million shares (including 750,000 shares from the underwriters exercised option to purchase 750,000 additional shares) through an underwritten public offering in connection with forward sales agreements, which the Company physically settled in October 2024. For the full year ended December 31, 2024, and 2025 to-date, the Company has raised (inclusive of the $276.8 million of unsettled forward proceeds described above) net proceeds of $738.3 million from the issuance of 34.1 million shares at an average price of $21.65 per share.
* Debt-to-EBITDA Metrics: Pro-rata Net Debt-to-EBITDA improved to 5.5x at December 31, 2024 as compared to 7.1x at December 31, 2023. Refer to the fourth quarter 2024 Supplemental Information package for reconciliations and details on financial ratios.
* No Significant Core Debt Maturities until 2028: 0.3%, 7.2%, and 5.8% of Core debt maturing in 2025, 2026, and 2027, respectively.

DIVIDEND

Increased Quarterly Dividend by $0.01 to $0.20 per Common Share: The Company's Board of Trustees has authorized a cash dividend of $0.20 per common share for the first quarter of 2025. The 5.3% increase from the prior quarterly dividend was driven by the Company's continued internal and external growth. The quarterly dividend is payable on April 15, 2025 to holders of record as of March 31, 2025.

GUIDANCE

The following initial guidance is based upon Acadia's current view of market conditions and assumptions for the year ended December 31, 2025.

The Company is setting initial 2025 guidance as follows:

* Net earnings per diluted share of $0.22 to $0.27
* FFO Before Special items per diluted share of $1.30 - $1.39
* Projected same-property NOI growth of 5-6%

It is the Company's policy not to include the estimated financial impact of acquisition and disposition of assets within its guidance until such transactions are consummated.

```
   
                                                       2025 Guidance   
                                                  ------------------------   
                                                                    2024   
                                                  Guidance Range   Actuals   
   
Net earnings per share attributable to Acadia      $0.22-$0.27     $0.19   
Depreciation of real estate and amortization of   
 leasing costs (net of noncontrolling interest   
 share)                                                0.96         0.92   
(Gain) Loss on disposition on real estate   
 properties (net of noncontrolling interest   
 share)                                                 --         (0.01)   
Impairment charges (net of noncontrolling   
 interest share)                                        --          0.01   
Noncontrolling interest in Operating Partnership       0.01         0.01   
                                                  --------------  --------   
NAREIT Funds from operations per share   
 attributable to Common Shareholders and Common   
 OP Unit holders                                   $1.19-$1.24     $1.12   
Net unrealized holding loss (1)                         --          0.04   
Funds From Operations Before Special Items and   
 Realized Gains per share attributable to Common   
 Shareholders and Common OP Unit holders           $1.18-$1.24     $1.16   
Realized gains and promotes (2)                     0.11-0.15       0.12   
Funds From Operations Before Special Items per   
 share attributable to Common Shareholders and   
 Common OP Unit holders                            $1.30-$1.39     $1.28   
   
   
________   
      1.    This represents the actual unrealized mark-to-market holdings loss   
            related to the Company's investment in Albertsons, which was   
            recognized in NAREIT FFO for the year ended December 31, 2024. The   
            Company has not reflected any forward-looking estimates involving   
            future unrealized holding gains or losses (i.e., changes in share   
            price) on Albertsons in its 2025 guidance assumptions.   
   
      2.    It is the Company's policy to exclude unrealized gains and losses   
            from FFO Before Special items and to include realized gains   
            related to the Company's investment in Albertsons. The Company   
            realized investment gains of $14.3 million for the year ended   
            December 31, 2024 (which was included in both NAREIT FFO and FFO   
            Before Special Items). Refer to the 2025 guidance page within the   
            Company's latest Supplemental Report for additional information   
            and certain underlying assumptions.   
 
```

CONFERENCE CALL Management will conduct a conference call on Wednesday, February 12, 2025 at 11:00 AM ET to review the Company's earnings and operating results. Participant registration and webcast information is listed below.

```
   
 Live Conference Call:   
 Date:                             Wednesday, February 12, 2025   
--------------------------------  --------------------------------------------   
 Time:                             11:00 AM ET   
--------------------------------  --------------------------------------------   
 Participant call:                 Fourth Quarter 2024 Dial-In   
--------------------------------  --------------------------------------------   
 Participant webcast:              Fourth Quarter 2024 Webcast   
--------------------------------  --------------------------------------------   
 Webcast Listen-only and Replay:   www.acadiarealty.com/investors under   
                                   Investors, Presentations & Events   
--------------------------------  --------------------------------------------   
 
```

The Company uses, and intends to use, the Investors page of its website, which can be found at https://www.acadiarealty.com/investors, as a means of disclosing material nonpublic information and of complying with its disclosure obligations under Regulation FD, including, without limitation, through the posting of investor presentations and certain portfolio updates. Additionally, the Company also uses its LinkedIn profile to communicate with its investors and the public. Accordingly, investors are encouraged to monitor the Investors page of the Company's website and its LinkedIn profile, in addition to following the Company's press releases, SEC filings, public conference calls, presentations and webcasts.

About Acadia Realty Trust

Acadia Realty Trust is an equity real estate investment trust focused on delivering long-term, profitable growth. Acadia owns and operates a high-quality core real estate portfolio ("Core" or "Core Portfolio") of street and open-air retail properties in the nation's most dynamic retail corridors, along with an investment management platform that targets opportunistic and value-add investments through its institutional co-investment vehicles ("Investment Management"). For further information, please visit www.acadiarealty.com.

Safe Harbor Statement

Certain statements in this press release may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"). Forward-looking statements, which are based on certain assumptions and describe the Company's future plans, strategies and expectations are generally identifiable by the use of words, such as "may," "will," "should," "expect," "anticipate," "estimate," "believe," "intend" or "project," or the negative thereof, or other variations thereon or comparable terminology. Forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause the Company's actual results and financial performance to be materially different from future results and financial performance expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements, including, but not limited to: (i) macroeconomic conditions, including due to geopolitical conditions and instability, which may lead to a disruption of or lack of access to the capital markets, disruptions and instability in the banking and financial services industries and rising inflation; (ii) the Company's success in implementing its business strategy and its ability to identify, underwrite, finance, consummate and integrate diversifying acquisitions and investments; (including the potential acquisitions discussed in this press release); (iii) changes in general economic conditions or economic conditions in the markets in which the Company may, from time to time, compete, and their effect on the Company's revenues, earnings and funding sources; (iv) increases in the Company's borrowing costs as a result of rising inflation, changes in interest rates and other factors; (v) the Company's ability to pay down, refinance, restructure or extend its indebtedness as it becomes due; (vi) the Company's investments in joint ventures and unconsolidated entities, including its lack of sole decision-making authority and its reliance on its joint venture partners' financial condition; (vii) the Company's ability to obtain the financial results expected from its development and redevelopment projects; (viii) the ability and willingness of the Company's tenants to renew their leases with the Company upon expiration, the Company's ability to re-lease its properties on the same or better terms in the event of nonrenewal or in the event the Company exercises its right to replace an existing tenant, and obligations the Company may incur in connection with the replacement of an existing tenant; (ix) the Company's potential liability for environmental matters; (x) damage to the Company's properties from catastrophic weather and other natural events, and the physical effects of climate change; (xi) the economic, political and social impact of, and uncertainty surrounding, any public health crisis, which adversely affected the Company and its tenants' business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity; (xii) uninsured losses; (xiii) the Company's ability and willingness to maintain its qualification as a REIT in light of economic, market, legal, tax and other considerations; (xiv) information technology security breaches, including increased cybersecurity risks relating to the use of remote technology; (xv) the loss of key executives; and (xvi) the accuracy of the Company's methodologies and estimates regarding corporate responsibility metrics, goals and targets, tenant willingness and ability to collaborate towards reporting such metrics and meeting such goals and targets, and the impact of governmental regulation on our corporate responsibility efforts.

The factors described above are not exhaustive and additional factors could adversely affect the Company's future results and financial performance, including the risk factors discussed under the section captioned "Risk Factors" in the Company's most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K and other periodic or current reports the Company files with the SEC. Any forward-looking statements in this press release speak only as of the date hereof. The Company expressly disclaims any obligation or undertaking to release publicly any updates or revisions to any forward-looking statements to reflect any changes in the Company's expectations with regard thereto or changes in the events, conditions or circumstances on which such forward-looking statements are based.

```
   
             ACADIA REALTY TRUST AND SUBSIDIARIES   
   
     Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations (1)   
(Unaudited, Dollars and Common Shares and Units in thousands,   
                  except per share amounts)   
   
                   Three Months Ended         Year Ended   
                      December 31,           December 31,   
                  --------------------  ----------------------   
                    2024       2023       2024        2023   
Revenues   
Rental            $ 91,579   $ 84,205   $349,530   $333,044   
Other                1,755      1,308     10,159      5,648   
                   -------    -------    -------    -------   
Total revenues      93,334     85,513    359,689    338,692   
                   -------    -------    -------    -------   
   
Expenses   
Depreciation and   
 amortization       35,189     35,029    138,910    135,984   
General and   
 administrative     10,397     10,572     40,559     41,470   
Real estate   
 taxes              12,535     12,064     46,049     46,650   
Property   
 operating          16,772     17,229     66,000     61,826   
Impairment   
 charges             1,678         --      1,678      3,686   
                   -------    -------    -------    -------   
Total expenses      76,571     74,894    293,196    289,616   
                   -------    -------    -------    -------   
   
(Loss) gain on   
 disposition of   
 properties           (393)        --       (834)        --   
                   -------    -------    -------    -------   
Operating income    16,370     10,619     65,659     49,076   
Equity in   
 (losses)   
 earnings of   
 unconsolidated   
 affiliates           (774)    (1,404)    15,178     (7,677)   
Interest income      6,575      5,118     25,085     19,993   
Realized and   
 unrealized   
 holding   
 (losses) gains   
 on investments   
 and other             904        177     (5,014)    30,413   
Interest expense   (21,904)   (24,692)   (92,557)   (93,253)   
                   -------    -------    -------    -------   
Income (loss)   
 from continuing   
 operations   
 before income   
 taxes               1,171    (10,182)     8,351     (1,448)   
Income tax   
 provision             (11)       (53)      (212)      (301)   
                   -------    -------    -------    -------   
Net income   
 (loss)              1,160    (10,235)     8,139     (1,749)   
Net loss   
 attributable to   
 redeemable   
 noncontrolling   
 interests           1,397      2,578      7,915      8,239   
Net loss   
 attributable to   
 noncontrolling   
 interests           5,967      6,320      5,596     13,383   
                   -------    -------    -------    -------   
Net income   
 (loss)   
 attributable to   
 Acadia   
 shareholders     $  8,524   $ (1,337)  $ 21,650   $ 19,873   
                   =======    =======    =======    =======   
   
   
Less: earnings   
 attributable to   
 unvested   
 participating   
 securities           (306)      (244)    (1,189)      (978)   
                   -------    -------    -------    -------   
Net income   
 (loss)   
 attributable to   
 Common   
 Shareholders -   
 basic earnings   
 per share        $  8,218   $ (1,581)  $ 20,461   $ 18,895   
Impact of   
assumed   
conversion of   
dilutive   
convertible   
securities              --         --         --         --   
                   -------    -------    -------    -------   
Income from   
 continuing   
 operations net   
 of income   
 attributable to   
 participating   
 securities for   
 diluted   
 earnings per   
 share            $  8,218   $ (1,581)  $ 20,461   $ 18,895   
                   =======    =======    =======    =======   
   
Weighted average   
 shares for   
 basic earnings   
 per share         118,719     95,363    108,227     95,284   
                   =======    =======    =======    =======   
Weighted average   
 shares for   
 diluted   
 earnings per   
 share             118,750     95,363    108,258     95,284   
                   =======    =======    =======    =======   
   
Net earnings per   
 share - basic   
 (2)              $   0.07   $  (0.02)  $   0.19   $   0.20   
                   =======    =======    =======    =======   
Net earnings per   
 share - diluted   
 (2)              $   0.07   $  (0.02)  $   0.19   $   0.20   
                   =======    =======    =======    =======   
   
   
                 ACADIA REALTY TRUST AND SUBSIDIARIES   
   
  Reconciliation of Consolidated Net Income to Funds from Operations   
                                (1,3)   
 (Unaudited, Dollars and Common Shares and Units in thousands, except   
                          per share amounts)   
   
                           Three Months Ended         Year Ended   
                              December 31,           December 31,   
                          --------------------  ----------------------   
                            2024       2023       2024        2023   
   
Net income (loss)   
 attributable to Acadia   $  8,524   $ (1,337)  $ 21,650   $ 19,873   
   
Depreciation of real   
 estate and amortization   
 of leasing costs (net   
 of noncontrolling   
 interests' share)          27,665     27,689    107,450    109,732   
Impairment charges (net   
 of noncontrolling   
 interests' share)             750         --        750        852   
Loss (gain) on   
 disposition of   
 properties (net of   
 noncontrolling   
 interests' share)             395         --     (1,086)        --   
Income attributable to   
 Common OP Unit holders        363        (31)     1,067      1,282   
Distributions -   
 Preferred OP Units             67        123        341        492   
                           -------    -------    -------    -------   
Funds from operations   
 attributable to Common   
 Shareholders and Common   
 OP Unit holders -   
 Diluted                  $ 37,764   $ 26,444   $130,172   $132,231   
                           =======    =======    =======    =======   
   
Unrealized holding loss   
 (gain) (net of   
 noncontrolling interest   
 share)                       (949)      (352)     4,616     (3,762)   
Realized gain                3,685      2,265     14,188      4,636   
                           -------    -------    -------    -------   
FFO before Special Items   
 attributable to Common   
 Shareholder and Common   
 OP Unit holders (1)      $ 40,500   $ 28,357   $148,976   $133,105   
                           =======    =======    =======    =======   
   
Less:Non-cash and   
 non-recurring gain from   
 BBBY lease termination         --         --         --     (7,758)   
                           -------    -------    -------    -------   
Funds From Operations   
 Before Special Items   
 attributable to Common   
 Shareholders and Common   
 OP Unit holders,   
 excluding BBBY gain   
 (6)                      $ 40,500   $ 28,357   $148,976   $125,347   
                           =======    =======    =======    =======   
   
Funds From Operations   
per Share - Diluted   
Basic weighted-average   
 shares outstanding,   
 GAAP earnings             118,719     95,363    108,227     95,284   
Weighted-average OP   
 Units outstanding           7,280      7,136      7,495      7,180   
Assumed conversion of   
 Preferred OP Units to   
 Common Shares                 256        464        356        464   
                           -------    -------    -------    -------   
Weighted average number   
 of Common Shares and   
 Common OP Units           126,255    102,963    116,078    102,928   
                           =======    =======    =======    =======   
   
Diluted Funds from   
 operations, per Common   
 Share and Common OP   
 Unit                     $   0.30   $   0.26   $   1.12   $   1.28   
                           =======    =======    =======    =======   
   
Diluted Funds from   
 operations before   
 Special Items, per   
 Common Share and Common   
 OP Unit                  $   0.32   $   0.28   $   1.28   $   1.29   
                           =======    =======    =======    =======   
   
Diluted Funds from   
 operations before   
 Special Items,   
 excluding BBBY gain per   
 Common Share and Common   
 OP Unit                  $   0.32   $   0.28   $   1.28   $   1.22   
                           =======    =======    =======    =======   
   
   
                ACADIA REALTY TRUST AND SUBSIDIARIES   
   
  Reconciliation of Consolidated Operating Income to Net Property   
                    Operating Income ("NOI") (1)   
                 (Unaudited, Dollars in thousands)   
   
                         Three Months Ended         Year Ended   
                            December 31,           December 31,   
                        --------------------  ----------------------   
                          2024       2023       2024        2023   
   
Consolidated operating   
 income                 $ 16,370   $ 10,619   $ 65,659   $ 49,076   
Add back:   
  General and   
   administrative         10,397     10,572     40,559     41,470   
  Depreciation and   
   amortization           35,189     35,029    138,910    135,984   
  Impairment charges       1,678         --      1,678      3,686   
  Loss on disposition   
   of properties             393         --        834         --   
Less:   
  Above/below-market   
   rent, straight-line   
   rent and other   
   adjustments            (4,760)    (1,951)   (17,735)   (20,617)   
                         -------    -------    -------    -------   
Consolidated NOI          59,267     54,269    229,905    209,599   
   
Redeemable   
 noncontrolling   
 interest in   
 consolidated NOI         (1,994)    (1,160)    (6,127)    (4,420)   
Noncontrolling   
 interest in   
 consolidated NOI        (17,226)   (16,465)   (69,540)   (59,597)   
Less: Operating   
 Partnership's   
 interest in   
 Investment Management   
 NOI included above       (7,083)    (5,358)   (25,496)   (19,816)   
Add: Operating   
 Partnership's share   
 of unconsolidated   
 joint ventures NOI   
 (5)                       3,027      2,986     11,531     14,249   
                         -------    -------    -------    -------   
Core Portfolio NOI      $ 35,991   $ 34,272   $140,273   $140,015   
                         =======    =======    =======    =======   
   
   
                Reconciliation of Same-Property NOI   
                 (Unaudited, Dollars in thousands)   
   
                   Three Months Ended            Year Ended   
                       December 31,              December 31,   
                 -----------------------  -------------------------   
                     2024        2023         2024         2023   
                 ------------  ---------  ------------  -----------   
Core Portfolio   
 NOI             $ 35,991      $ 34,272   $140,273      $140,015   
Less properties   
 excluded from   
 Same-Property   
 NOI               (3,340)       (3,378)   (11,680)      (18,392)   
                  -------       -------    -------       -------   
Same-Property   
 NOI             $ 32,651      $ 30,894   $128,593      $121,623   
                  =======       =======    =======       =======   
   
Percent change   
 from prior   
 year period          5.7%                     5.7%   
                  =======                  =======   
   
Components of   
Same-Property   
NOI:   
Same-Property   
 Revenues        $ 46,266      $ 44,958   $183,157      $175,244   
Same-Property   
 Operating   
 Expenses         (13,615)      (14,064)   (54,564)      (53,621)   
                  -------       -------    -------       -------   
Same-Property   
 NOI             $ 32,651      $ 30,894   $128,593      $121,623   
                  =======       =======    =======       =======   
   
   
                  ACADIA REALTY TRUST AND SUBSIDIARIES   
   
               Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets (1)   
            (Unaudited, Dollars in thousands, except shares)   
   
                                                     As of   
                                        --------------------------------   
                                         December 31,     December 31,   
                                             2024             2023   
ASSETS   
Investments in real estate, at cost   
Buildings and improvements              $   3,174,250   $   3,128,650   
Tenant improvements                           304,645         257,955   
Land                                          906,031         872,228   
Construction in progress                       23,704          23,250   
Right-of-use assets - finance leases           61,366          58,637   
                                            ---------       ---------   
Total                                       4,469,996       4,340,720   
Less: Accumulated depreciation and   
 amortization                                (926,022)       (823,439)   
                                            ---------       ---------   
  Operating real estate, net                3,543,974       3,517,281   
  Real estate under development               129,619          94,799   
                                            ---------       ---------   
Net investments in real estate              3,673,593       3,612,080   
Notes receivable, net ($2,004 and   
 $1,279 of allowance for credit losses   
 as of December 31, 2024 and December   
 31, 2023, respectively)                      126,584         124,949   
Investments in and advances to   
 unconsolidated affiliates                    209,232         197,240   
Other assets, net                             223,767         208,460   
Right-of-use assets - operating   
 leases, net                                   25,531          29,286   
Cash and cash equivalents                      16,806          17,481   
Restricted cash                                22,897           7,813   
Marketable securities                          14,771          33,284   
Rents receivable, net                          58,022          49,504   
Assets of properties held for sale                 --          11,057   
                                            ---------       ---------   
Total assets                            $   4,371,203   $   4,291,154   
                                            =========       =========   
   
LIABILITIES, REDEEMABLE   
NONCONTROLLING INTERESTS AND EQUITY   
Liabilities:   
Mortgage and other notes payable, net   $     953,700   $     930,127   
Unsecured notes payable, net                  569,566         726,727   
Unsecured line of credit                       14,000         213,287   
Accounts payable and other liabilities        232,726         229,375   
Lease liabilities - operating leases           27,920          31,580   
Dividends and distributions payable            24,505          18,520   
Distributions in excess of income   
 from, and investments in,   
 unconsolidated affiliates                     16,514           7,982   
                                            ---------       ---------   
Total liabilities                           1,838,931       2,157,598   
                                            ---------       ---------   
Commitments and contingencies   
                                        --------------  ----------------   
Redeemable noncontrolling interests            30,583          50,339   
                                            ---------       ---------   
   
Equity:   
Acadia Shareholders' Equity   
  Common shares, $0.001 par value per   
   share, authorized 200,000,000   
   shares, issued and outstanding   
   119,657,594 and 95,361,676 shares,   
   respectively                                   120              95   
  Additional paid-in capital                2,436,285       1,953,521   
  Accumulated other comprehensive   
   income                                      38,650          32,442   
  Distributions in excess of   
   accumulated earnings                      (409,383)       (349,141)   
                                            ---------       ---------   
Total Acadia shareholders' equity           2,065,672       1,636,917   
Noncontrolling interests                      436,017         446,300   
                                            ---------       ---------   
Total equity                                2,501,689       2,083,217   
                                            ---------       ---------   
Total liabilities, redeemable   
 noncontrolling interests, and equity   $   4,371,203   $   4,291,154   
                                            =========       =========   
   
   
                     ACADIA REALTY TRUST AND SUBSIDIARIES   
   
Notes to Financial Highlights:   
   
(1)    For additional information and analysis concerning the Company's   
       balance sheet and results of operations, reference is made to the   
       Company's quarterly supplemental disclosures for the relevant periods   
       furnished on the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K, which is   
       available on the SEC's website at www.sec.gov and on the Company's   
       website at www.acadiarealty.com.   
   
(2)    Diluted earnings per share reflects the potential dilution that could   
       occur if securities or other contracts to issue common shares of the   
       Company were exercised or converted into common shares. The effect of   
       the conversion of units of limited partnership interest ("OP Units") in   
       Acadia Realty Limited Partnership, the operating partnership of the   
       Company (the "Operating Partnership"), is not reflected in the above   
       table; OP Units are exchangeable into common shares on a one-for-one   
       basis. The income allocable to such OP units is allocated on the same   
       basis and reflected as noncontrolling interests in the consolidated   
       financial statements. As such, the assumed conversion of these OP Units   
       would have no net impact on the determination of diluted earnings per   
       share.   
   
(3)    The Company considers funds from operations ("FFO") as defined by the   
       National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts ("NAREIT") and   
       net property operating income ("NOI") to be appropriate supplemental   
       disclosures of operating performance for an equity REIT due to their   
       widespread acceptance and use within the REIT and analyst communities.   
       In addition, the Company believes that given the atypical nature of   
       certain unusual items (as further described below), "FFO Before Special   
       Items" is also an appropriate supplemental disclosure of operating   
       performance. FFO, FFO Before Special Items and NOI are presented to   
       assist investors in analyzing the performance of the Company. The   
       Company believes they are helpful as they exclude various items   
       included in net income (loss) that are not indicative of operating   
       performance, such as (i) gains (losses) from sales of real estate   
       properties; (ii) depreciation and amortization and (iii) impairment of   
       depreciable real estate properties. In addition, NOI excludes interest   
       expense and FFO Before Special Items excludes certain unusual items (as   
       further described below). The Company's method of calculating FFO, FFO   
       Before Special Items and NOI may be different from methods used by   
       other REITs and, accordingly, may not be comparable to such other   
       REITs. Neither FFO nor FFO Before Special Items represent cash   
       generated from operations as defined by generally accepted accounting   
       principles ("GAAP"), or are indicative of cash available to fund all   
       cash needs, including distributions. Such measures should not be   
       considered as an alternative to net income (loss) for the purpose of   
       evaluating the Company's performance or to cash flows as a measure of   
       liquidity.   
   
       a.    Consistent with the NAREIT definition, the Company defines FFO as   
             net income (computed in accordance with GAAP) excluding:   
   
             i.      gains (losses) from sales of real estate properties;   
   
             ii.     depreciation and amortization;   
   
             iii.    impairment of real estate properties;   
   
             iv.     gains and losses from change in control; and   
   
             v.      after adjustments for unconsolidated partnerships and   
                     joint ventures.   
   
       b.    Also consistent with NAREIT's definition of FFO, the Company has   
             elected to include: the impact of the unrealized holding gains   
             (losses) incidental to its main business, including those related   
             to its RCP investments such as Albertsons in FFO.   
   
       c.    FFO Before Special Items begins with the NAREIT definition of FFO   
             and adjusts FFO (or as an adjustment to the numerator within its   
             earnings per share calculations) to take into account FFO without   
             regard to certain unusual items including:   
   
             i.      charges, income and gains that management believes are   
                     not comparable and indicative of the results of the   
                     Company's operating real estate portfolio;   
   
             ii.     the impact of the unrealized holding gains (losses)   
                     incidental to its main business, including those related   
                     to its Retailer Controlled Property Venture ("RCP")   
                     investments such as Albertsons; and   
   
             iii.    any realized income or gains from the Company's   
                     investment in Albertsons.   
   
(4)    The Company defines Special Items to include (i) unrealized holding   
       losses or gains (net of noncontrolling interest share) on investments   
       and (ii) other costs that do not occur in the ordinary course of our   
       underwriting and investing business.   
   
(5)    The pro-rata share of NOI is based upon the Operating Partnership's   
       stated ownership percentages in each venture or Investment Management's   
       operating agreement and does not include the Operating Partnership's   
       share of NOI from unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures within   
       Investment Management.   
   
(6)    Results for the year ended December 31, 2023 included a non-recurring   
       gain of $7.8 million from the termination of the Bed Bath and Beyond   
       ("BBBY") below-market lease at 555 9th Street in San Francisco.   
 
```

View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20250211133711/en/

CONTACT: Sandra Liang

(914) 288-3356

**(21:31 GMT)** \*Acadia Realty Trust Sees 2025 EPS 22c-EPS 27c >AKR

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250211011202:0/)
