---
title: "Auto & Transport Roundup: Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-13 05:50:00"
summary: "The latest Market Talks covering the Auto and Transport sector. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires at 4:20 ET, 12:20 ET and 16:50 ET.1441 ET - Colonel's Island Terminal in Brunswick, Georgia, was the busiest U.S. port for cars and heavy equipment last year, Georgia Ports Authority says. The facility..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The latest Market Talks covering the Auto and Transport sector. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires at 4:20 ET, 12:20 ET and 16:50 ET.

1441 ET - Colonel's Island Terminal in Brunswick, Georgia, was the busiest U.S. port for cars and heavy equipment last year, Georgia Ports Authority says. The facility handled over 901,000 units of autos and heavy equipment in 2024, in the wake of a series of improvements which included new warehousing and processing space. Brunswick was also the top port for roll-on/roll-off exports in 2024, moving 600,000 tons, the Authority says. Overall, the facility handled over 2 million tons of roll-on-roll-off cargo last year, according to the Authority. (stephen.nakrosis@wsj.com)

1319 ET - UBS says Lyft's worse-than-expected 4Q gross bookings and margin trajectory reinforces its below-consensus adjusted Ebitda forecasts for 2025 to 2027. The analysts also say in a research note that the upcoming loss of the Delta Air Lines partnership, that linked Delta SkyMiles and Lyft accounts, will likely be a headwind that makes their medium-term forecasts uncertain. Add to that the threat of robotaxis and the analysts say they have limited visibility into near-term trading multiple expansion. "We think Lyft's competing initiative will remain nascent through 2026," the analysts say. UBS cuts its target price to $15 from $16. Lyft falls 4% to $13.82. (sabela.ojea@wsj.com; @sabelaojeaguix)

1138 ET - The pressure that a pricing war is having on Lyft's gross bookings is a symptom of the company's smaller marketplace compared to Uber Technologies, DA Davidson analysts say in a research note. While Lyft deserves credit for some product innovations such as the price lock, it is unclear whether any rideshare product innovations can yield long-term sustainable competitive advantages against a larger scaled competitor, the analysts add. Lyft shares drop 5%, while Uber shares rise 1.6%. (sabela.ojea@wsj.com; @sabelaojeaguix)

0751 ET - The cost of insuring China's sovereign debt against default using credit default swaps falls to a two-year low, boosted by news about AI advancements from Chinese companies. Stocks of Chinese electric vehicle manufacturer BYD have rallied following news that it plans to integrate software from AI company DeepSeek in its cars, Swissquote Bank's Ipek Ozkardeskaya says in a note. "Chinese tech stocks are surfing on the DeepSeek wave," she says. China's five-year credit default swaps fall 4 basis points to 49bps, a low last reached in January 2023, S&P Global Market Intelligence data show. (miriam.mukuru@wsj.com)

0546 ET - India shares edged lower, with the benchmark of Sensex dropping 0.2% to 76171.08. Investors are expected to further digest India's latest CPI data, which showed inflation slowed compared with December. Looking ahead, markets await U.S. CPI data due later today for clues on the Fed's trajectory of interest rate cuts. Developments to U.S. President Trump's tariffs are also being closely monitored. Among major stocks, Mahindra & Mahindra dropped 3.2%, Power Grid Corporation of India was 1.6% lower and ITC declined 2.1%. Gainers included Tata Steel, which added 1.65% and Tata Motors, which gained 1.0%. (tracy.qu@wsj.com)

0356 ET - Exports should remain a growth driver for China's auto sector in 2025 given relatively lean inventory levels, Bernstein analysts write in a note. Industry wholesale volumes are projected to grow 1% and reach around 27.5 million units this year, with 22.1 million units for the domestic market and around 5.4 million units for exports. The long-term EV sector growth outlook remains intact, and Bernstein forecasts 25% growth for EV sales in China this year, with EV penetration expected to rise to 60% in the country. Competition in the domestic market should remain intense, pressuring pricing and profitability in the sector, they say. Overseas markets therefore present a strategic growth opportunity, Bernstein says. (jiahui.huang@wsj.com; @ivy\_jiahuihuang)

0337 ET - Rheinmetall should experience market volatility in the coming weeks, Morgan Stanley analysts say. This is due to several events likely to pull investors' sentiment in both directions, they say. These include the Munich Security Conference on Feb. 14-16, where a potential Ukraine-Russia ceasefire is likely to be discussed; the German federal election on Feb. 23, which could yield a government in favor of higher defense spending; and a potential meeting between U.S. President Trump and Russian President Vladimir Putin, which media reports suggest could take place in February or March, the analysts say. "While we see these potential events as presenting more upside than downside risk to our investment case, we acknowledge that market sentiment could be heavily influenced by those headlines," they write. Shares are down 2.6% at 711.4 euros. (cristina.gallardo@wsj.com)

0305 ET - The extension of a trade-in program in China to boost auto demand isn't expected to materially drive up sales given a gloomy economic outlook and global trade tensions, S&P Global Ratings analysts say in a report. Meanwhile, intense price competition in the Chinese car sector may not ebb until "more competitors are shaken out, a process that could take several years," and could involve exits by some foreign brands that have lagged behind in the EV transition, S&P says. The ratings firm projects 0%-2% growth in the country's domestic light vehicle unit sales this year on cautious consumer sentiment over big-ticket items. (hoishan.chan@wsj.com)

0235 ET - BYD's move to put its advanced driving assistance technology into mass-market models will boost its sales volumes this year, Deutsche Bank analyst Bin Wang writes in a note. After becoming a world leader in EVs, the company is vying to take the lead in the intelligent driving space too, the analyst adds. Even though it hasn't raised prices for its models with autonomous driving features, BYD will still be able to maintain stable profits per unit this year, Wang says. DB lifts its 2025 volume forecast for BYD to 5.6 million units from 5.5 million units. The brokerage keeps a buy rating on the stock and increases the target price to HK$400.00 from HK$357.00. (jiahui.huang@wsj.com; @ivy\_jiahuihuang)

2122 ET - Vietnam and India appear the most vulnerable to U.S. tariffs, ANZ Research economists say in a report. Vietnam looks the most exposed to higher across-the-board tariffs and could be a priority target if the U.S. focuses on economies that are among the top contributors to its trade deficit, the economists say. Should the U.S. opt for reciprocal tariffs and seek to equalize average tariffs with each trading partner, India stands out as the most vulnerable, followed by Thailand, they say. As for sectors mentioned as potential targets for product-specific U.S. tariffs, Asia is most vulnerable when it comes to semiconductors, pharmaceuticals and cars, the economists add. (ronnie.harui@wsj.com)

1818 ET - Lyft's CEO David Risher plans to take part in the robotaxi race by launching around 1,000 Mobileye powered-robotaxis in Dallas as early as 2026, the executive says on a call with analysts. The company is getting financing from Japanese trading and investment firm Marubeni. "They're expensive assets," Risher says, adding that since, most cars get less valuable over time, the company needed an expert in financing its robotaxis. Last week, rival Uber Technologies' shares declined after the company reported lower-than-expected income for the fourth quarter and the market questioned the company's plans to compete in the robotaxi race. Lyft shares drop 10% to $12.85. Uber shares fall 2.5% to $75. (sabela.ojea@wsj.com; @sabelaojeaguix)

1803 ET - Lyft's outlook for the first quarter was mainly affected by a pricing war with its competitors since the fourth quarter, together with people taking less, and shorter rides after the holidays, CFO Erin Brewer says on a call with analysts. The company had to lower prices, and if the price environment stays sustainably lower, that could translate into a low-single digit percentage point impact to the ride-sharing company's gross bookings in 2025, Brewer says. Brewer adds that the end of a long exclusive partnership with Delta Air Lines, who recently tapped Uber in a new deal, will also hit rides and gross bookings by 1% to 2%, starting in the second quarter. Shares fall 10% to $12.95 after hours. (sabela.ojea@wsj.com; @sabelaojeaguix)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250212014953:0/)
