---
title: "Communications Services Flat on Retreat From Risk — Communications Services Roundup"
date: "2025-02-13 07:05:00"
summary: "Communications services companies were flat as traders retreated from high-risk sectors.Zillow Group slid after the real-estate Web site posted earnings short of Wall Street estimates, reflecting a broad slowdown in the housing market. Revenue in the rentals unit grew 25% to $116 million, however, reflecting the growing importance of leasing..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Communications services companies were flat as traders retreated from high-risk sectors.

Zillow Group slid after the real-estate Web site posted earnings short of Wall Street estimates, reflecting a broad slowdown in the housing market. Revenue in the rentals unit grew 25% to $116 million, however, reflecting the growing importance of leasing businesses for real-estate firms.

Barry Diller is back at the helm of media and internet conglomerate IAC. Diller, who turned 83 earlier this month, even appeared on the company's earnings conference call for the first time since April 2014.

Arena Group, publisher of TheStreet and Men's Journal magazine among other media, ousted Sara Silverstein as chief executive officer after less than a year, naming insider Paul Edmondson as her interim successor.

Sean Combs is suing NBCUniversal, Peacock and production company Ample over a documentary released this year about the life of the fallen hip-hop mogul.

The Federal Communications Commission said it plans to open an investigation into cable and internet giant Comcast Corp. and its NBCUniversal subsidiary over diversity, equity and inclusion programs, citing concerns about what the agency characterized as "discrimination."

Write to Rob Curran at rob.curran@dowjones.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250212016105:0-communications-services-flat-on-retreat-from-risk-communications-services-roundup/)
