---
title: "KULR Technology Group Files 8K - Regulation FD >KULR"
date: "2025-02-13 21:30:00"
summary: "KULR Technology Group Inc. (KULR) filed a Form 8K - Regulation FD Disclosure - with the U.S Securities and Exchange Commission on February 13, 2025.On February 13, 2025, KULR Technology Group, Inc. (the \"Company\" or \"KULR\") issued a press release announcing a strategic partnership focused on advancing battery technology and..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

KULR Technology Group Inc. (KULR) filed a Form 8K - Regulation FD Disclosure - with the U.S Securities and Exchange Commission on February 13, 2025.

On February 13, 2025, KULR Technology Group, Inc. (the "Company" or "KULR") issued a press release announcing a strategic partnership focused on advancing battery technology and strengthening domestic manufacturing.

A copy of the press release is attached herewith as Exhibit 99.1.

By filing this Current Report on Form 8-K and furnishing the information contained herein, the Company makes no admission as to the materiality of any information in this report that is required to be disclosed solely by reason of Regulation FD. The Company uses, and will continue to use, its website, press releases, and various social media channels, including its Twitter account (twitter.com/kulrtech), its LinkedIn account (linkedin.com/company/kulr-technology-corporation), its Facebook account (facebook.com/KULRTechnology), its TikTok account (tiktok.com/Kulr\_tech), its Instagram account (instagram.com/Kulr\_tech), and its YouTube account (youtube.com/channel/UC3wZBPINQd51N6p35Mo5uQg), as additional means of disclosing public information to investors, the media and others interested in the Company. It is possible that certain information that the Company posts on its website, disseminated in press releases and on social media could be deemed to be material information, and the Company encourages investors, the media and others interested in the Company to review the business and financial information that the Company posts on its website, disseminates in press releases and on the social media channels identified above, as such information could be deemed to be material information.

The information in this Item 7.01 disclosure, including Exhibit 99.1, is being furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities under that Section. In addition, the information in this Item 7.01 disclosure, including Exhibits 99.1, shall not be incorporated by reference into the filings of the Company under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.

The full text of this SEC filing can be retrieved at: https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1662684/000110465925012564/tm256420d1\_8k.htm

Any exhibits and associated documents for this SEC filing can be retrieved at: https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1662684/000110465925012564/0001104659-25-012564-index.htm

Public companies must file a Form 8-K, or current report, with the SEC generally within four days of any event that could materially affect a company's financial position or the value of its shares.

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250213009527:0/)
