---
title: "Fidelity Says a Decade of Advisor M&A Shows No Sign of Slowing Down — Barrons.com"
date: "2025-02-12 02:59:00"
summary: "By Kenneth CorbinLooking back on a decade of mergers and acquisitions in the wealth management space, Fidelity Investments, with some understatement, says in a new report: \"A lot has changed since we started tracking M&amp;A transactions in 2015.\"A lot indeed. Fidelity recorded 89 M&amp;A transactions involving registered investment advisors in..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Kenneth Corbin

Looking back on a decade of mergers and acquisitions in the wealth management space, Fidelity Investments, with some understatement, says in a new report: "A lot has changed since we started tracking M&A transactions in 2015."

A lot indeed. Fidelity recorded 89 M&A transactions involving registered investment advisors in 2015, with client assets purchased totaling $130 billion. Last year Fidelity tallied 233 RIA deals with just under $670 billion of assets in motion.

Fidelity doesn't offer any specific forecast for what those numbers could look like over the next decade, but it identifies several trends that suggest that deal activity will remain brisk. The enduring strength of M&A "speaks to a young but maturing industry as firms become more scaled amidst a more competitive landscape," the company says.

The first strategic acquirers began emerging a decade ago, with Focus Financial and its affiliates leading the way, followed closely by United Capital, both of which made more than 10 acquisitions in 2015, according to Fidelity. Other firms that are now well-established aggregators each made more than one deal that year, including Captrust, Hightower and its affiliates, and Mariner.

The demographics of the advisor industry are part of the deal story. The average age of advisors has held steady at around 50 for the past decade, and the next 10 years are expected to see 37% of advisors — who manage $10.4 trillion, or 40% of assets in the industry — retire, so succession planning is a major driver of advisors who decide to sell their firm, Fidelity says, citing data from industry researcher Cerulli Associates.

Role of private equity. Unlike a decade ago, when Fidelity described the sell-side motivation as, "I feel stuck and don't have an employable succession plan," more advisors today are thinking along the lines of, "I have opportunities to partner with strategic acquirers and [private-equity] capital backers to continue our growth journey."

Private equity is a major part of the story of the past decade of deal activity, with well-funded investment shops taking stakes in RIAs that are trying to build out a large geographic footprint and expand their service offering. Often that includes the purchase of smaller RIAs, but increasingly, big firms are acquiring "adjacent" practices in fields such as tax and accounting, outsourced CIO, and business consulting. Acquirers have moved away from the simple "asset grab" strategy that motivated many deals a decade ago to a more considered approach, Fidelity says.

"Fast forward a few years, and the conversation is more about becoming the dominant geographic or national presence, with some employing a hub-and-spoke model strategy by planting a flag in a strategic location with the intent to build out offices and advisor communities," Fidelity says in the report.

Among acquisitions of RIAs, 89% of the deals Fidelity reported in 2024 were executed by firms with private-equity backing, up from 43% in 2016.

PE remains the preferred capitalization model within the industry: Fidelity points out that no RIA company went public in 2024.

Changes ahead. Among the scenarios Fidelity contemplates for the next decade is whether there will be a "tipping point" with PE firms taking larger stakes in RIAs and potentially orchestrating a "megamerger."

Fidelity is also looking for more new entrants to launch acquisition campaigns and says it is keeping an eye on what types of adjacent practices RIAs look to acquire as they broaden their menu of services.

It also notes that the past few years have seen prominent leaders of large RIAs exit the business — Rudy Adolf and Ron Carson come to mind, though Fidelity doesn't name names, but suggests that the next decade could see more leadership shake-ups at major firms.

"We will be closely observing how many additional strategic acquirer firms undergo leadership transitions and hand their reins to their G2 leaders," Fidelity says.

This content was created by Barron's, which is operated by Dow Jones & Co. Barron's is published independently from Dow Jones Newswires and The Wall Street Journal.

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250211008776:0/)
