---
title: "Barclays Benefits From Trump Trading Bump — WSJ"
date: "2025-02-13 18:38:00"
summary: "By Joe WallaceA trading flurry around President Trump's election victory boosted profit at Barclays.The trans-Atlantic bank swung to a quarterly profit equivalent to roughly $1.2 billion.Stock-trading income leapt 44% in dollar terms, thanks to haywire market moves before and after the election. Income from trading bonds, currencies and commodities, a..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Joe Wallace

A trading flurry around President Trump's election victory boosted profit at Barclays.

* The trans-Atlantic bank swung to a quarterly profit equivalent to roughly $1.2 billion.
* Stock-trading income leapt 44% in dollar terms, thanks to haywire market moves before and after the election. Income from trading bonds, currencies and commodities, a traditional strength for the bank, jumped 32%.
* Another bright spot was the U.K. retail bank, where profit in the December quarter more than doubled from a year earlier.
* Barclays said British consumers seemed in good financial health, and the housing and mortgage markets were picking up speed.

The results showed the benefits for Barclays of retaining a significant investment bank, whose volatile returns have long been a source of frustration for investors.

However, investors were underwhelmed by targets laid out as the next stage in a three-year turnaround plan under Chief Executive C.S. Venkatakrishnan, who is widely known as Venkat. His goals for this year include stepping up shareholder returns, cutting costs, and delivering an 11% return on tangible equity, one measure of banking profitability.

Shares, which have doubled since Venkat unveiled his broad strategy a year ago, fell more than 4%.

"Overall a solid set of results, but little new to get excited about either," Citigroup analyst Andrew Coombs said in a note.

Some analysts said a forecast for net interest income-earnings from lending, net of borrowing costs-was underwhelming. And analysts at Peel Hunt said the investment bank's performance appeared to lag that of bigger U.S. rivals.

This item is part of a Wall Street Journal live coverage event. The full stream can be found by searching P/WSJL (WSJ Live Coverage).

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250213005279:0/)
