---
title: "The Morning Risk Report: Trump Delays Crackdown on China Imports Loophole"
date: "2025-02-10 20:05:00"
summary: "The Morning Risk Report: Trump Delays Crackdown on China Imports Loophole By David SmagallaGood morning. President Trump delayed his plans to close a trade loophole for China that allows small shipments to avoid duties and customs inspections.Latest moves: Trump on Friday signed an amendment to pause his earlier executive order,..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The Morning Risk Report: Trump Delays Crackdown on China Imports Loophole By David Smagalla

Good morning. President Trump delayed his plans to close a trade loophole for China that allows small shipments to avoid duties and customs inspections.

Latest moves: Trump on Friday signed an amendment to pause his earlier executive order, which suspended the so-called de minimis provision for low-value parcels from China. The amendment says the provision will remain available until the Commerce Department can set up a system to process inspections and levies on the shipments.

What's de minimis? Under U.S. tax law, the de minimis provision lets companies avoid import taxes and customs inspections on international shipments with a retail value of less than $800.

Part of tariff crackdown: Trump suspended the provision as part of his executive order imposing a 10% tariff on imports from China. The order caused widespread confusion among e-commerce retailers and logistics operators, and prompted the U.S. Postal Service to temporarily stop accepting parcels from China and Hong Kong before allowing them again.

Breaking it down: More on who benefits from de minimis and how ending it for China imports might affect companies and consumers.

Background: Before the reversal, Trump had blocked the use of the exemption to bring in goods from China. That approach, one of many that lawmakers have floated to deal with de minimis, had bipartisan support in Washington. The Biden administration previously took some steps to crack down on the de minimis provision, including proposing new rules . Compliance

Trump backs reworked Nippon-U.S. Steel plan that won't involve outright purchase.

President Trump said he supported what he described as an emerging agreement that would allow Nippon Steel to invest in-but not fully own-U.S. Steel, creating a path for the Japanese company to play a larger role in the American steel market.

Background. The president campaigned on strengthening the U.S. steel manufacturing sector and had previously said he opposed Nippon Steel's $14.1 billion proposal to own Pittsburgh-based U.S. Steel. Former President Joe Biden blocked the sale in January, fulfilling his pledge to keep the U.S. steelmaker domestically owned and overruling his foreign policy advisers.

CFPB to close office after Vought tells staff to halt all supervision.

President Trump's newly installed Consumer Financial Protection Bureau chief Russell Vought is closing the bureau's headquarters and has ordered staff to halt all of their supervisory efforts, ramping up the administration's attempt to revoke the financial regulator's authority.

Vought's moves, in his first days in control of the agency, could defang the financial regulator, a longtime goal of Republicans and a recent target of Trump and Elon Musk.

Russell Vought Taking Over as New Acting Head of CFPB A federal judge in New York temporarily restricted the ability of Elon Musk's Department of Government Efficiency to access the Treasury Department payment system, saying that doing so was necessary to prevent the potential disclosure of sensitive and confidential information.

President Trump today backed his vice president, JD Vance, in calling to rehire a Department of Government Efficiency staffer who resigned on Thursday over racist posts.

M&T Bank, the Buffalo-based bank that is a major commercial property lender, is opting in to take part in the Federal Reserve's 2025 annual stress test.

Chinese officials are building a list of U.S. technology companies that can be targeted with antitrust probes and other tools, hoping to influence the tech executives who are heavily represented in President Trump's orbit.

Corporate diversity pledges and DEI programs have generated a lot of controversy. They haven't generated as much diversity . Risk

Trump's next round of tariffs-25% on steel and aluminum-won't be so easily averted.

President Trump said that he plans to impose 25% tariffs Monday on imports of steel and aluminum, part of the structural change to the country's trade system that the president promised on the campaign trail. He also said he plans to make an announcement about reciprocal tariffs on Tuesday or Wednesday.

The reciprocal tariffs plan will be applied to all trading partners, Trump said, but some countries that already charge similar tariffs on American goods that the U.S. charges on their products may not see much change. Steel and aluminum tariffs will apply to every nation exporting the metals to the U.S.

Trump's Team Takes Its Fight to a Wary Europe

Hiring slows but remains solid, with economy adding 143,000 jobs.

The job market kept chugging along in January, albeit at a slower pace than the previous two months.

The U.S. economy added 143,000 jobs last month and the unemployment rate edged down to 4%, the Labor Department said Friday. The numbers show a job market that is cooling but still solid.

The gain in jobs was a drop from November and December and was less than the 169,000 jobs economists had expected, according to a Wall Street Journal survey. However, the job market in November and December was stronger than previously thought, with the job counts revised upward by a combined 100,000 jobs.

Friday's Jobs Report Is Confusing. Here's What to Know. The Trump bump in consumer confidence is already over . Tariff threats, stock market swings and rapidly reversing executive orders are causing Americans across the political spectrum to feel considerably more pessimistic about the economy than they did before President Trump took office.

China's consumer inflation accelerated in January as food and service prices climbed ahead of the Lunar New Year holiday, official data showed Sunday.

European natural-gas prices jumped in early trade, reaching a two-year high as stronger fuel demand due to colder temperatures risks draining already low inventories.

Pausing assistance to crime-battered countries like Haiti, Colombia and Ecuador may worsen issues the Trump administration is focused on, Latin America's regional officials say

Insurer State Farm aggressively grew in Los Angeles, despite getting overweight on fire risk, but decided to cut thousands of policies last year , adding to the state's home-insurance crisis.

Sky-high egg prices. Millions of dead chickens. A new strain in cattle. Bird flu is making its way around the country, hitting farmers and consumers in their wallets. More on what we know about the H5N1 bird flu .

It took less than a month for the second Trump administration to cool the enthusiasm of chief executives and dealmakers.

Artificial intelligence, at least one GLP-1 weight-loss treatment and ardently apolitical themes are set to occupy the ad breaks in the Super Bowl this Sunday, when marketers will try to capitalize on trends of the moment without upsetting anyone in television's largest audience of the year.

Podcast: How insurers are confronting a tricky, risky future.

California's wildfires caused an estimated $30 billion or more in losses to insurers, and the state's insurance landscape is in a state of chaos. But now is actually a pretty good time to be in the industry.

Insurers are coming up with new strategies to confront risks-even if consumers won't like the outcome.

Listen Here: What's News in Earnings: The Complicated State of Insurance

People

New acting OCC head appointed.

Former National Credit Union Administration Chairman Rodney Hood was appointed by the Treasury Department Friday to lead the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency on an acting basis.

In case you missed it, Risk & Compliance Journal recently caught up with the outgoing OCC head, Michael Hsu .

What Else Matters The scope and velocity of President Trump's moves to shrink the U.S. government, pressure U.S. allies and reorient the global economy are creating a ripple effect that stretches from American main streets to far-flung corners of the world.

Some of President Trump's Black and Latino supporters say they are pleased with his immediate efforts to dismantle federal diversity, equity and inclusion programs, according to interviews conducted by The Wall Street Journal.

President Trump this week called for the U.S. to take long-term control of the Gaza Strip and rebuild the devastated enclave. Whether the president's plan for Gaza is realized or not, the scale and cost of rebuilding the Philadelphia-size enclave is monumental .

Trump's first-term tariffs led Samsung to invest in a washing machine factory, which gave Newberry County, S.C., a boost. They also pushed up prices of washers for consumers. About Us

Follow us on X at @WSJRisk . Follow Risk & Compliance editor David Smagalla @DSmagalla\_DJ and reporters Mengqi Sun @\_MengqiSun and Richard Vanderford @VanderfordRich .

You can reach us by replying to any newsletter, or email David at [david.smagalla@wsj.com].

This article is a text version of a Wall Street Journal newsletter published earlier today.

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250210003815:0/)
