---
title: "Here's Where Phillips 66 and Elliott Don't See Eye to Eye — WSJ"
date: "2025-02-12 03:55:00"
summary: "By Jinjoo LeeActivist Elliott Investment Management had a clear roadmap for refining giant Phillips 66 when it took its first $1 billion stake in the company in late 2023. The company, though, has moved in a slightly different direction.Hence Elliott's latest move: The activist on Tuesday disclosed an additional stake..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Jinjoo Lee

Activist Elliott Investment Management had a clear roadmap for refining giant Phillips 66 when it took its first $1 billion stake in the company in late 2023. The company, though, has moved in a slightly different direction.

Hence Elliott's latest move: The activist on Tuesday disclosed an additional stake in the refiner that brings its total to more than $2.5 billion. The gist of its demands are similar to the previous set: Sell or spin off non-core assets such as the midstream segment, focus more on the refining business and cut operating costs.

By some metrics, the company has made progress: Phillips 66's operating expenses declined by $0.75 a barrel to $6.23 in 2024, according to a report from Matthew Blair, equity analyst at Tudor Pickering Holt (TPH). In its latest earnings call, the company said it could cut another $0.40 a barrel of expenses this year. The company also distributed about $13.6 billion in cash to shareholders from July 2022 until year-end 2024, meeting its own target range of $13 billion to $15 billion. It also exceeded its own $3 billion asset divestiture target.

But the progress hasn't been fast enough, and in some cases Phillips 66 is veering completely off path. Even with the cost cuts, Phillips 66's operating expenses per barrel in 2024 were still about 34% higher than peer Valero, according to TPH estimates. Its margins per barrel still badly lag behind those of Valero and Marathon Petroleum. There aren't obvious reasons for Phillips 66 to have higher refining costs: After all, its exposure to the higher-cost West Coast region is in line with Valero and about half of Marathon's.

And while Phillips 66 did sell off some assets, it also doubled down on the midstream business, a segment that Elliott wants the company to sell or spin off. Since Elliott's initial involvement, Phillips 66 acquired two new midstream assets and has said it is open to more deals.

In its latest earnings call, Phillips 66 said some of its investors own a stake in the company because of what it is doing in its midstream business. "We believe we can create more shareholder value by keeping the midstream business integrated with our refining," Chief Executive Mark Lashier said on the call.

The market reaction on Tuesday, though, suggests more investors might be in Elliott's camp: Phillips 66's shares were up 4.1% following Elliott's announcement.

This analysis comes from the Journal's Heard on the Street team. Subscribe to their free daily afternoon newsletter here.

This item is part of a Wall Street Journal live coverage event. The full stream can be found by searching P/WSJL (WSJ Live Coverage).

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250211009005:0/)
