---
title: "Global Equities Roundup: Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-11 15:23:00"
summary: "The latest Market Talks covering Equities. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.0723 GMT - Chinese shares ended lower, with declines led by consumer and property stocks. Consumer sentiment remained relatively weak despite China's cabinet pledges to boost spending and attract foreign investment. Poly Developments &amp; Holdings Group..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The latest Market Talks covering Equities. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.

0723 GMT - Chinese shares ended lower, with declines led by consumer and property stocks. Consumer sentiment remained relatively weak despite China's cabinet pledges to boost spending and attract foreign investment. Poly Developments & Holdings Group dropped 2.1% and China Vanke was down 2.4%. Yonghui Superstores slid 3.05% and Yifeng Pharmacy Chain shed 1.7%. Semiconductor Manufacturing International Corp. ended 2.9% lower ahead of its 4Q results. Oil stocks broadly rose, with Cnooc up 1.7% and PetroChina rising 0.7%. The benchmark Shanghai Composite Index ended 0.1% lower at 3318.06, the Shenzhen Composite Index put off 0.5% and the ChiNext Price Index fell 1.4%. (sherry.qin@wsj.com)

0714 GMT - SGS's 2024 results show the company's strong execution toward its 2027 plan, but its outlook for the year ahead seems conservative, Bernstein's Will Kirkness and Filippo Giardini say in a research note. The Swiss testing, inspection and certification company expects organic sales growth of 5% to 7%, against Bernstein's forecast of 6.7% and consensus estimates of 5.9%, the analysts say. It expects an improvement of at least 30 basis points in its adjusted operating profit margin relative to the 15.3% margin it reported for 2024. This compares with Bernstein's estimate of 16% and the consensus of 15.7%, the analysts say. "We view the outlook as conservative and contingent on further [foreign-exchange] developments," they add. (adria.calatayud@wsj.com)

0653 GMT - The buzz around AI firm DeepSeek is shining the spotlight on companies tied to tech giant ByteDance, Daiwa analysts write in a note. DeepSeek's arrival has fueled sentiment around AI, spilling over into companies that do business with ByteDance, which has its own AI chatbot. That's brought some of the company's major listed suppliers like Accelink Technologies, a maker of optical components and photo-electronic devices, onto investors' radar, the analysts say. GigaDevice Semiconductor, a memory chip provider, is reaping the benefits, as are ByteDance suppliers Shenzhen Woer and Broadex, which respectively specialize in power cables & shrinkable tubes, and electronic components, they add. (jiahui.huang@wsj.com; @ivy\_jiahuihuang)

0645 GMT - U.S. tariffs on steel and aluminum imports will likely have a limited direct impact on Asian countries, analysts at DBS Group research write in a note. While domestic U.S. players will benefit most from the higher prices, the U.S. depends highly on Canada and Mexico, which will suffer the most, they write. The exposure for Chinese steelmakers is negligible, while aluminum products from China accounted for only 3% of U.S. imports of the metal between 2020 and 2023. Indirect impacts include an increased supply of these metals to regional markets avoiding U.S. tariffs and U.S. inflation pressure from higher material prices. (kimberley.kao@wsj.com)

0640 GMT - Outokumpu is closely monitoring developments after the U.S. imposed 25% tariffs on steel and aluminum imports, and says tariffs on imported goods are generally beneficial. The Finland-based stainless steel company says it is the second-largest stainless steel producer in the U.S., and it has a plant in Alabama. Tariffs on imported goods are helpful for the company's operations in the Americas amid significant stainless steel imports from Asia to North America, which Outokumpu says have often negatively impacted the company. It adds that imports have markedly risen in recent years and that it welcomes moves to establish a level playing field in North America. (pierre.bertrand@wsj.com)

0514 GMT - Top Glove's earnings are on the cusp of a progressive recovery this year, UOB Kay Hian analyst Jack Goh says in a note. The glove maker is likely to benefit from U.S. tariff hikes, including the additional 10% levy on Chinese goods, he writes. That could entice U.S. distributors to stop importing medical gloves from Chinese producers and instead buy from Malaysian manufacturers such as Top Glove, he says. The current risk-reward tradeoff appears fair but still provides palatable upside based on 2026 valuations, he adds. UOB KH maintains the stock's hold rating and target price of MYR1.31. Shares last closed at MYR1.22. (amanda.lee@wsj.com)

0513 GMT - BYD's latest AI-powered driving technology for Chinese car buyers mark a new breakthrough for the industry, according to Daiwa analysts Evelyn Zhang and Kelvin Lau in a research note. Peers are likely to follow suit, they write, recommending investors to focus on smart car technology supply-chain players after BYD's latest press conference. BYD is setting an example of cost reduction through engineering and technological innovation, the analysts note, adding that the industry is likely to follow BYD in accelerating innovation in engineering to cut costs. The analysts name Horizon Robotics, Huizhou Desay SV Automotive and Bethel Automotive Safety Systems as their preferred names. (tracy.qu@wsj.com)

0503 GMT - DeepSeek has triggered a positive feedback loop in the Hang Seng Index, overriding lackluster fundamentals, says Kelvin Wong, senior market analyst at Oanda. The Chinese AI startup's emergence has resulted in positive momentum overall for Hong Kong's benchmark index in the medium term, even though mixed consumer spending and weak factory activity in China suggest deflationary pressures are likely to persist, Wong adds. The Hang Seng Index, whose stocks serve as a proxy for international investors to get exposure to China equities, has outperformed major U.S. stock indexes so far this year, Wong notes. Investors are starting to reprice the earnings growth expectations of U.S. mega-cap technology stocks that are "trading at lofty valuations" over Chinese AI equities, Wong adds. (kimberley.kao@wsj.com)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250211001115:0/)
