---
title: "Tech, Media & Telecom Roundup: Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-10 17:20:00"
summary: "The latest Market Talks covering Technology, Media and Telecom. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires at 4:20 ET, 12:20 ET and 16:50 ET.0909 GMT - Talabat Holding's upcoming fourth-quarter results will likely be good, ING analyst Marc Hesselink says. The Dutch bank expects Delivery Hero's Middle East subsidiary to deliver..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The latest Market Talks covering Technology, Media and Telecom. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires at 4:20 ET, 12:20 ET and 16:50 ET.

0909 GMT - Talabat Holding's upcoming fourth-quarter results will likely be good, ING analyst Marc Hesselink says. The Dutch bank expects Delivery Hero's Middle East subsidiary to deliver revenue and Ebitda slightly above consensus. "The key point is to see if the strong growth and profitability trends of nine month of 2024 continued into the fourth quarter," Hesselink adds. Additionally, the company will probably reiterate its 2025 guidance, which includes continued high growth and margin improvement, he says. Shares are up 0.7% at 1.42 United Arab Emirates dirham. (najat.kantouar@wsj.com)

0827 GMT - Chinese automakers may take the lead in incorporating AI innovations and democratizing these technologies in mass-market cars, said Paul Gong, UBS head of China autos research. "After the DeepSeek surprise during the Chinese New Year, intelligence initiatives could remain a key theme among auto stocks," he says. Traditional carmakers will likely announce more collaborations with AI companies in the coming months ride the momentum, he adds. Gong believes that the technological edge in the auto sector will likely shift from electrification to intelligence with rising awareness and adoption of AI. He notes that smart cockpits powered by AI algorithms could provide a sustainable competitive edge, helping automakers gain market share. Meanwhile, AI could gradually lead to higher manufacturing productivity, boosting carmakers' margins in the long term, he adds. (sherry.qin@wsj.com)

0812 GMT - DeepSeek's success could boost demand for Nvidia's products despite the chip maker's stock being among the hardest hit initially, Tiger Brokers market strategist James Ooi writes in a note. DeepSeek is viewed as AI's Sputnik moment, as the Chinese AI startup appears to have shaken U.S. AI dominance by achieving comparable performance at a fraction of the costs incurred by its American counterparts, he says. AI software stocks should benefit from DeepSeek's success as lower computing costs would open up new opportunities, Ooi says. It could also create higher demand for Nvidia's GPUs despite initial fears that lower-cost AI models may reduce the need for high-end chips, he adds. (jiahui.huang@wsj.com; @ivy\_jiahuihuang)

0538 GMT - Advanced Info Service's earnings outlook may be strong, Maybank Securities (Thailand)'s Wasu Mattanapotchanart says in a research report. The Thai mobile phone operator's 2025 revenue should grow 4%, supported by 2%, 8%, and 15% increases in mobile, fixed broadband, and enterprise revenues, respectively, the analyst estimates. Its core profit growth should outperform Ebitda growth this year, thanks to flat depreciation and amortization expenses and a 9% decline in interest expenses, the analyst says. The brokerage raises its 2025 and 2026 core profit forecasts for the company by 2% and 1%, respectively. It upgrades the stock's rating to buy from hold and raises the target price to THB307.00 from THB301.00. Shares are 1.8% higher at THB285.00. (ronnie.harui@wsj.com)

0501 GMT - A dividend surprise may be on the cards for Bharti Airtel, given its robust free cash flow, continued deleveraging and early payment to the government to clear 2016 spectrum dues, Citi Research says. A push by the Indian telecom company's controlling shareholder, which recently raised its stake by issuing debt, could also drive a higher dividend payout, analyst Saurabh Handa writes in a note. Meanwhile, Airtel delivered another solid performance in 3Q, with sequential growth of nearly 6% in revenue and 9% in Ebitda for its India mobile-services segment, he says. Citi maintains a buy rating on the stock with a target price of INR1,900. Shares are 0.7% higher at INR1,690. (farah.elias@wsj.com)

0158 GMT - CelcomDigi's 4Q core net profit could be sequentially flat, as rising synergies from merger cost savings could be offset by normalizing expenses and higher device costs, CIMB Securities analyst Foong Choong Chen says. Still, CIMB maintains a buy rating on the telco company as it offers an attractive dividend yield of 3.7%-5.6% over 2024-2026. The analyst also expects 4Q core net profit to be 12%-15% higher on the year, and notes that the company's prepaid subscriber base seems to be stabilizing on quarter, and network integration appears to be on track. CIMB keeps its target price at MYR4.20. Shares are unchanged at MYR3.78. (yingxian.wong@wsj.com)

2357 GMT - Logistics software developer WiseTech Global should be a net beneficiary of the complexity that tariffs could add to global trade, RBC analyst Garry Sherriff says. He thinks that tariffs could spur demand for the Australian company's CargoWise platform, particularly its customs and compliance modules. Sherriff tells clients in a note that medium-term structural tailwinds remain in place but anticipates near-term negative sentiment from continued leadership uncertainty and local media coverage of personal allegations against founder Richard White. RBC has a last-published sector-perform rating and A$125.00 target price on the stock, which is down 3.5% at A$125.40. (stuart.condie@wsj.com)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250210002191:0/)
