---
title: "Credo Schedules Third Quarter Fiscal Year 2025 Financial Results Conference Call"
date: "2025-02-13 22:04:00"
summary: "Credo Schedules Third Quarter Fiscal Year 2025 Financial Results Conference CallSAN JOSE, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--February 13, 2025--Credo Technology Group Holding Ltd (Credo) , an innovator in providing secure, high-speed connectivity solutions that deliver improved reliability and energy efficiency, today announced it will hold a conference call on Tuesday, March 4, 2025,..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Credo Schedules Third Quarter Fiscal Year 2025 Financial Results Conference Call

SAN JOSE, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--February 13, 2025--

Credo Technology Group Holding Ltd (Credo) , an innovator in providing secure, high-speed connectivity solutions that deliver improved reliability and energy efficiency, today announced it will hold a conference call on Tuesday, March 4, 2025, at 2:00 p.m. Pacific Time to discuss its financial results for the fiscal third quarter ended February 1, 2025.

The news release announcing the third quarter fiscal year 2025 financial results will be disseminated on March 4, 2025 after the market closes.

Interested parties may join the conference call beginning at 2:00 p.m. Pacific Time on Tuesday, March 4, 2025 by dialing 888-596-4144 (toll-free) or +1 646-968-2525 (international). The conference ID for the call is 5251802. It is recommended that participants register and dial in to the call at least 10 minutes before the start of the call. A live webcast of the conference call will be available on Credo's Investor Relations website at http://investors.credosemi.com/.

A replay of the webcast will be available via the web at http://investors.credosemi.com/.

About Credo

Our mission is to deliver high-speed solutions to break bandwidth barriers on every wired connection in the data infrastructure market. Credo is an innovator in providing reliable, secure, high-speed connectivity solutions that deliver improved power efficiency as data rates and corresponding bandwidth requirements increase exponentially throughout the data infrastructure market. Our innovations ease system bandwidth bottlenecks while simultaneously improving on power, security, and reliability. Our connectivity solutions are optimized for optical and electrical Ethernet applications, including the emerging 100G (or Gigabits per second), 200G, 400G, 800G and the emerging 1.6T (or Terabits per second) port markets. Credo products are based on our proprietary Serializer/Deserializer (SerDes) and Digital Signal Processor (DSP) technologies. Our product families include Integrated Circuits (ICs) for the optical and line card markets, Active Electrical Cables (AECs) and SerDes Chiplets. Our intellectual property (IP) solutions consist primarily of SerDes IP licensing.

For more information, please visit https://www.credosemi.com. Follow Credo on LinkedIn.

View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20250213495639/en/

CONTACT: Investor Contact:

Dan O'Neil

dan.oneil@credosemi.com

Media Contact:

Diane Vanasse

diane.vanasse@credosemi.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250213010116:0/)
