---
title: "Unilever Set for Modest Sales Growth, Guidance in Focus — Earnings Preview"
date: "2025-02-11 20:20:00"
summary: "By Dominic ChoppingUnilever is scheduled to report results for the fourth quarter on Thursday. Here is what you need to know:TURNOVER FORECAST: The Anglo-Dutch retailer--which owns consumer brands such as Dove and Knorr--is expected to post a slight increase in fourth-quarter turnover to 14.28 billion euros ($14.72 billion) from 14.18..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Dominic Chopping

Unilever is scheduled to report results for the fourth quarter on Thursday. Here is what you need to know:

TURNOVER FORECAST: The Anglo-Dutch retailer--which owns consumer brands such as Dove and Knorr--is expected to post a slight increase in fourth-quarter turnover to 14.28 billion euros ($14.72 billion) from 14.18 billion euros in the same period a year prior, according to a company-compiled consensus.

UNDERLYING SALES FORECAST: Underlying sales growth--which strips out exceptional and other one-off items--for the period is anticipated at 4.1%, with a contribution of 3.0% from volume--the amount of goods sold--and 1.0% from price, reflecting how much its products were sold for.

Shares over the past 12 months are up around 18% and currently trade at 47.29 pounds.

WHAT TO WATCH:

* Unilever expects underlying sales growth for 2024 to be within a range of 3% to 5%, with the majority of the growth being driven by volume.
* The company currently expects an underlying operating margin of at least 18% in 2024. Market expectations point to a margin of 18.3%, according to a consensus provided by the company.
* Guidance for 2025 will be a key area of focus. Guillaume Delmas at UBS noted that consensus expects underlying sales growth of 4.2% in 2025. UBS is more cautious though, modeling 3.7% as it bakes in a lower contribution from the company's four growth engines of deodorants, health & wellbeing, Unilever food solutions and prestige beauty, as well as a slower development in the rest of Unilever.
* "We continue to be concerned by the rapid normalization in pricing, particularly in Europe where price contribution turned negative again in Q3," Delmas said in a note. As such, the bank expects Unilever to guide for 2025 underlying sales growth in the 3%-5% range.
* Unilever is proceeding with a separation of its ice-cream business, and any clues on the progress will also be eyed. It is due to provide a detailed update on the separation before the end of March, with completion expected by the end of 2025.
* The board declared a quarterly dividend of 43.96 European cents in the third quarter.

Write to Dominic Chopping at dominic.chopping@wsj.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250211004061:0/)
