---
title: "Deere Hints at Cautious Optimism for Farmers in 2025 — Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-14 01:32:00"
summary: "1232 ET - Though it's early in the year, 2025 is showing signs of improvement for the bottom lines of U.S. farmers, says Deere on its F1Q earnings call. Officials say that they're seeing pricing pressures that farmers grappled with last year easing, which may provide a new spark for..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

1232 ET - Though it's early in the year, 2025 is showing signs of improvement for the bottom lines of U.S. farmers, says Deere on its F1Q earnings call. Officials say that they're seeing pricing pressures that farmers grappled with last year easing, which may provide a new spark for Deere sales. "On the input side, farmers are continuing to see a decline in input costs for the third consecutive year," says Deere's Josh Beal during the call, adding that government assistance coming from the American Relief Act of 2025 will also support farmers. "This assistance will offset some of the margin decline farmers saw in 2024, while potentially helping to relieve concerns around macro risk and high interest rates." (kirk.maltais@wsj.com)

1228 ET - Eversource Energy's 4Q results and earnings call were encouraging, Siebert Williams Shank analysts say in a research note. The energy company could have higher 2026-2027 EPS growth, as well as over the next five years, given improved cash flows and interest expense savings, the analysts say. Still, earnings call participants appeared disappointed by the temporary lull in 2025 EPS growth and remained more focus on that more modest near-term growth. Siebert Williams Shank cuts its target price to $85 a share from $87 a share previously. Shares rise 5.4% to $62.95. (sabela.ojea@wsj.com; @sabelaojeaguix)

1211 ET - AppLovin's fourth-quarter advertising revenue came in well above the expectations of the vast majority of investors polled by BofA Securities analysts. The mobile-advertising-technology company's AI-engine push has shown efficacy with e-commerce categories such as fintech, insurance, healthcare and automotive, which surprised the analysts as well. "The additional demand density from e-commerce appears to have driven the take rate to new highs," the analysts add, noting that they assume a rapid succession of model enhancements in AppLovin's e-commerce model independent of gaming ads. BofA Securities raises its target price to $580 from $375 a share previously on the company's improved outlook. Shares jump 28%, to $487.21, a share. (sabela.ojea@wsj.com; @sabelaojeaguix)

1158 ET - There were three running threads during airlines' most recent reporting season, UBS analysts say in a research note. For starters, strong demand accelerated throughout the fourth quarter, fueled by leisure and corporate travelers. This trend has been sticking around so far in the first quarter, the analysts note. Additionally, international flights drove revenue, more so than domestic, they say. Finally, cost pressures remain at large, as evidenced by most airlines' costs per available seat mile outweighing revenues per available seat mile, according to analysts. The quarter was overall strong, but the industry remains one of the haves and the have-nots, analysts say, noting their top picks of Alaska Air Group, United Airlines Holdings and Delta Air Lines. (connor.hart@wsj.com)

1135 ET - MGM Resorts International's outlook on growth for its Las Vegas Strip Resorts unit this year is catching investors' and analysts' attention as shares of the hotel and casino operator reach their largest percent increase since November 2020. The company is targeting growth in Vegas despite the tough Super Bowl comparatives of the first quarter of 2024, UBS and Truist Securities analysts say in separate research notes. MGM says it identified $200M of incremental Ebitda opportunities: 35% of those from revenue initiatives and 65% from cost reduction initiatives, with $150M to be achieved in 2025. Overall, the company is the best performer in the S&P 500 today, according to FactSet. Shares rise 14%, to $39.16. (sabela.ojea@wsj.com; @sabelaojeaguix)

1134 ET — Tariffs won't be a problem for Corsair Gaming, executives say on a call with analysts. The gaming technology company moved the production of most of its U.S.-bound products out of China five years ago during President Trump's first round of tariffs, at which time the company also "planned further actions in case more or expanded tariffs were announced," CFO Michael Potter says. It doesn't have any factory locations in Canada or Mexico. Corsair guides for better-than-expected revenue in 2025, including the effect of tariffs. "Depending on the news coming up next, that might change the picture," COO Thi La says, "but at the moment, we feel pretty good about our supply chain." Shares rise 17%. (connor.hart@wsj.com)

1105 ET - Hewlett Packard Enterprise has shipped its first Nvidia Blackwell family-based technology, the GB200 NVL72, a rack-scale system aimed at service providers and large enterprises for deploying AI clusters. This system uses advanced direct liquid cooling for efficiency and performance, featuring shared-memory, low-latency architecture for AI models over a trillion parameters. It blends Nvidia CPUs, GPUs, networking, and software for handling parallel workloads like GenAI. The GB200 NVL72 includes 72 GPUs, 36 CPUs, and up to 13.5 TB of HBM3e memory with 576 TB/sec bandwidth. (chris.wack@wsj.com)

By Matt Grossman U.S. households took on more debt over the last three months of 2024, and consumer-credit delinquency rates increased, according to new data published by the New York Fed.

U.S. household debt rose by 0.5% to $18.04 trillion in the quarter, the reserve bank said. Borrowing rose across mortgages, car loans, credit cards and student debt.

Compared with a year earlier, a greater share of consumer loans were also moving into serious delinquency, although the figures were for the most part only up modestly.

The annualized rate of flow into 90-day-or-greater delinquency rose to 1.7% for all household borrowing, up from 1.4% in the fourth quarter of 2023. For credit cards, the flow into serious delinquency climbed to 7.2%, from 6.4% a year earlier, and the flow into auto-loan delinquency increased to 3%, from 2.7% a year earlier. But the flow into student-loan delinquency declined slightly.

Elevated delinquencies on auto loans continue a concerning trend, Fed staff members said.

"High auto loan delinquency rates are broad-based across credit scores and income levels," New York Fed economic research adviser Wilbert van der Klaauw said.

Auto-delinquency rates are higher than pre-pandemic levels for consumers in almost every credit-score category, New York Fed researchers said. Write to Matt Grossman at matt.grossman@wsj.com

1054 ET - Fortis's premium valuation is justified by the utility's strong position and incremental capex opportunities, but there looks to be little room for multiple expansionfrom here, Jefferies reckons. It initiates coverage with a hold call and C$67 target price. Jefferies' analysts forecast about 5% compound annual EPS growth for Fortis through 2029, assuming flat foreign exchange rates. Still, they also see limited balance sheet flexibility, which could be exacerbated by forex swings and/or tax reform. Fortis now up 0.7% at C$63.12. (robb.stewart@wsj.com; @RobbMStewart)

1039 ET - Living alone comes with a hefty "singles tax," according to Zillow. Solo renters pay an extra $7,562 for a one-bedroom compared to sharing. This tax has increased by over $450 from last year due to rising rents. Couples or roommates save $15,123 annually, making cohabitation financially rewarding. New York City tops the list with a $20,100 annual premium for solo living. The top cities for this tax have remained stable, but Boston jumped from fifth to fourth place, overtaking Washington, D.C., reflecting its escalating rental costs, with average rent at $3,002 in December 2024, 53% above the national average. While solo living offers autonomy, the financial burden is significant, urging renters to weigh their lifestyle against the cost. (chris.wack@wsj.com)

1017 ET - Keyera logged a strong 4Q, with the performance of its liquids infrastructure segment likely to have been the biggest positive surprise for investors, Raymond James' Michael Barth says. Adjusted Ebitda came in at C$313 million, 11% ahead of the analyst's forecast and 8% above the consensus projection. Barth expects the market to react positively, despite distributable cash flow being in line with expectations and no significant incremental news on growth. Raymond James has an outperform call on the shares, which are now up 2.7% at C$42.96.(robb.stewart@wsj.com)

1010 ET - There is a five-month supply of homes for sale in the U.S., up from 4.4 months last year, the highest since early 2019, according to Redfin. Inventory is growing because more sellers are listing homes--new listings increased by 7.4% year over year--while buyer interest wanes, with pending sales down 6%. High housing costs, with median monthly payments nearly at record highs, and a 4.3% rise in home prices, are major deterrents. Mortgage rates are currently at 6.89%, down slightly, but still high compared to pre-and early-pandemic rates. Redfin says there may be an uptick in house hunters soon if mortgage rates start dropping again. (chris.wack@wsj.com)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250213012759:0/)
