---
title: "U.S. Tariffs to Have Limited Effect on Thyssenkrupp — Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-10 18:17:00"
summary: "1017 GMT - U.S. tariffs on steel imports would only have a very limited impact on Thyssenkrupp at present, a spokesman for the company says. Europe is the German industrial and steel group's main market for steel and what the company does export to the U.S. is negligible and mostly..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

1017 GMT - U.S. tariffs on steel imports would only have a very limited impact on Thyssenkrupp at present, a spokesman for the company says. Europe is the German industrial and steel group's main market for steel and what the company does export to the U.S. is negligible and mostly concerns high-quality products, the company says. Sales in the U.S. are mainly from Thyssenkrupp's trading business and its automotive supply business, operations which are supported by a significant share of local manufacturing, Thyssenkrupp says. The company adds that much of the production for U.S. customers takes place within the U.S., which minimizes the risks associated with tariffs. Thyssenkrupp says, however, that it is monitoring developments. Shares trade up 0.07% to 4.59 euros. (pierre.bertrand@wsj.com)

0849 GMT - Meiji Yasuda Life's deal with Legal & General America is expected to positively impact the Japanese insurer's credit profile, Fitch Ratings analysts say. The deal takes into account the strong position of L&G's Banner Life in the steadily expanding U.S. individual life insurance market and pension risk transfer business, as well as improved global diversification for Meiji Yasuda, the analysts note. Fitch expects the impact on Meiji Yasuda's capital adequacy and financial leverage to be minimal and manageable, citing its consolidated net assets and cash equivalents. The group's strong position in the Japanese life insurance market should also help maintain overall sound credit fundamentals. (fabiana.negrinochoa@wsj.com)

0812 GMT - DeepSeek's success could boost demand for Nvidia's products despite the chip maker's stock being among the hardest hit initially, Tiger Brokers market strategist James Ooi writes in a note. DeepSeek is viewed as AI's Sputnik moment, as the Chinese AI startup appears to have shaken U.S. AI dominance by achieving comparable performance at a fraction of the costs incurred by its American counterparts, he says. AI software stocks should benefit from DeepSeek's success as lower computing costs would open up new opportunities, Ooi says. It could also create higher demand for Nvidia's GPUs despite initial fears that lower-cost AI models may reduce the need for high-end chips, he adds. (jiahui.huang@wsj.com; @ivy\_jiahuihuang)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250210002533:0/)
