---
title: "News Highlights: Top Global Markets News of the Day - Thursday at 7 AM ET"
date: "2025-02-13 20:15:00"
summary: "Producer Inflation Expected to Hold Firm in JanuaryThe consensus estimate is a 0.2% rise in the producer price index in January, which would match the increase in December.Stock Futures Little ChangedU.S. stock futures near unchanged ahead of wholesale prices data..Brookfield Credit Chief Bullish on Future Growth of Asset-Based LendingThe firm..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

**Producer Inflation Expected to Hold Firm in January**

The consensus estimate is a 0.2% rise in the producer price index in January, which would match the increase in December.

**Stock Futures Little Changed**

U.S. stock futures near unchanged ahead of wholesale prices data..

**Brookfield Credit Chief Bullish on Future Growth of Asset-Based Lending**

The firm said it expects to double its roughly $317 billion in total credit assets within five years.

**Inflation Helped Trump Get Elected. Now It's His Problem.**

The president's team blames his predecessor for stubborn inflation, but Trump's own agenda could make it harder to defeat.

**As Buyers Fail to Show Up, More Homes Are Being Pulled From Sale**

An increase in the number of properties being delisted could be an early sign of a weakening housing market.

**Eurozone Industry Ends Bright Streak With Drop in Output**

Industrial production fell 1.1% compared with the month before, quashing signs of recovery seen earlier in the quarter.

**IEA Slightly Lifts Oil Demand Outlook, Says Supply Surplus Narrowing**

The International Energy Agency modestly raised its forecast for global oil-demand growth and said improved compliance with output quotas among members of the OPEC+ alliance is reducing a projected supply surplus in the market.

**U.K. Competition Watchdog Targets Faster M&A Reviews**

The regulator plans to speed up its decision-making on large deals amid concern its probes could be having a chilling effect on investment.

**Why Dealers Are Flying Gold Bars by Plane From London to New York**

Tariff fears have roiled gold markets, pushing JPMorgan and others to stash bullion on passenger planes to sell at record prices.

**This Hedge Fund Delivered a Solid Year. So Why Can't Its Investors Cash Out?**

Clients of Armistice Capital who recently redeemed got stuck with IOUs that have lost money in 2025.

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250213007772:0-news-highlights-top-global-markets-news-of-the-day-thursday-at-7-am-et/)
