---
title: "Judge Directs Trump Administration to Comply with Order on Frozen Funds - 6th Update"
date: "2025-02-11 10:45:00"
summary: "By Jan Wolfe and Nidhi SubbaramanA judge ordered the Trump administration to restore federal funding it had tried to freeze, saying the White House wasn't fully complying with an earlier ruling against it.The order was one of several across the judiciary Monday that temporarily paused rapid-fire efforts by the White..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Jan Wolfe and Nidhi Subbaraman

A judge ordered the Trump administration to restore federal funding it had tried to freeze, saying the White House wasn't fully complying with an earlier ruling against it.

The order was one of several across the judiciary Monday that temporarily paused rapid-fire efforts by the White House to target federal spending and personnel.

U.S. District Judge John McConnell Jr. in Rhode Island directed the administration to "immediately take every step necessary to effectuate" a previous restraining order he issued Jan. 31.

The ruling from McConnell, an appointee of former President Barack Obama, came in a lawsuit brought by 22 states and the District of Columbia. It highlighted concerns among Democrats that the administration is defying court orders that have sought to slow the rollout of Trump policies. In a separate case, a coalition of trade unions on Monday said the State Department wasn't fully complying with a court order from Friday that halted aspects of Trump's effort to dismantle the U.S. Agency for International Development.

Another federal judge on Monday temporarily reinstated the head of a federal whistleblower agency who alleged he was unlawfully terminated by the president. U.S. District Judge Amy Berman Jackson in Washington ruled that Hampton Dellinger, who was appointed in 2023 to head the Office of Special Counsel, must be allowed to serve in that role through Thursday night, so that she can hear more argument on the matter.

The Trump administration's whirlwind efforts to examine government spending have also been met with lawsuits from opponents across the country. One of the latest examples came on Monday, when a group of Democratic attorneys general representing 22 states sued federal health agencies over a move last week by the National Institutes of Health to cut billions in research funding to medical centers.

The lawsuit before McConnell focused on a directive from the White House's Office of Management and Budget instructing federal agencies to pause funding while it assessed whether government programs complied with executive orders issued by President Trump cracking down on foreign aid, diversity initiatives and green-energy projects.

OMB rescinded that directive soon after the lawsuit was filed, but the states say some Congress-approved funds were still being improperly withheld. The initial rollout of the OMB policy sowed confusion among state governments, nonprofits and lawmakers who were trying to understand which programs would be halted.

In his earlier temporary restraining order, McConnell told the administration that it couldn't "pause, freeze, impede, block, cancel, or terminate" its federal financial-assistance obligations to the states. After the judge issued that decision, the states asked him to issue a follow-up order enforcing the earlier restraining order, saying the states "continue to be denied access to federal funds."

The states said in a court filing that still-frozen funds included about $7 billion in grant money for solar panels and $5 billion that supports greenhouse-gas reduction measures.

In a court filing Sunday, Justice Department lawyers said the administration had made "good-faith, diligent efforts" to comply with McConnell's earlier ruling. They said the funds at issue were frozen because of a Trump executive order, signed hours after he was sworn in, that paused tens of billions of dollars in federal climate spending.

The administration "reasonably interpreted the temporary restraining order not to extend to that" executive order, which wasn't challenged as part of the lawsuit, the Justice Department said.

The Justice Department also argued that the Jan. 31 order didn't prohibit federal agencies from reviewing payment requests to ensure they weren't fraudulent or wasteful.

McConnell rejected the argument, writing that the administration had "violated the plain text" of his restraining order.

"The Defendants now plea that they are just trying to root out fraud," the judge wrote. "But the freezes in effect now were a result of the broad categorical order, not a specific finding of possible fraud."

Later Monday, the Justice Department said in a court filing that it was appealing McConnell's ruling to the First U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals.

The Trump administration was dealt another legal setback on Monday in response to the NIH lawsuit. The judge overseeing that case put the cuts on hold temporarily and scheduled a hearing for Feb. 21.

NIH's Friday announcement set a 15% rate cap on dollars allocated to laboratory support services, which include things such as heating and ventilation, specialized biosafety equipment in labs working with dangerous pathogens, and hazardous waste disposal for chemicals. These "indirect cost" rates are negotiated by institutions directly with the federal government and can reach more than 60%.

NIH estimated this cut will save $4 billion a year. Researchers and groups representing medical centers warned the move would crush their capacity to do lifesaving and innovative work. Consequences could include suspending clinical trials, stopping research projects, deferring hiring, or furloughing existing staff, said Elena Fuentes-Afflick, chief scientific officer at Association of American Medical Colleges.

Monday's lawsuit filed in Massachusetts federal court challenges the NIH's authority to change existing rates, pointing in part to a measure in a budget bill that the attorneys general said barred such shifts. The lawsuit seeks to annul NIH's decision, and asked the judge to impose a preliminary injunction to prevent it from taking effect.

"NIH's move is simply illegal," Illinois attorney general Kwame Raoul said at a press briefing, estimating that the move would cost the University of Illinois system about $67 million annually.

Write to Jan Wolfe at jan.wolfe@wsj.com and Nidhi Subbaraman at nidhi.subbaraman@wsj.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250210008572:0/)
