---
title: "NXP Inks $307 Million Deal for AI Processor Company"
date: "2025-02-10 21:44:00"
summary: "By Connor HartNXP Semiconductors will buy Kinara for $307 million in cash, advancing its artificial intelligence capabilities.The Netherlands-based semiconductor company said Monday that Kinara's products will enable a wide range of edge AI applications, including multi-modal generative AI models.NXP and Kinara have previously partnered, which will facilitate the combination of..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Connor Hart

NXP Semiconductors will buy Kinara for $307 million in cash, advancing its artificial intelligence capabilities.

The Netherlands-based semiconductor company said Monday that Kinara's products will enable a wide range of edge AI applications, including multi-modal generative AI models.

NXP and Kinara have previously partnered, which will facilitate the combination of their portfolios. Together, the companies will be able to deliver scalable AI platforms for a variety of industrial- and automotive-AI inference needs, NXP said.

The deal is expected to close during the first half of the year, subject to customary closing conditions and regulatory requirements.

California-based Kinara's neural processing units and comprehensive software will deliver energy-efficient AI performance across a range of networks, including conventional- and generative-AI, according to NXP.

The purchase will help NXP address the rapidly-growing AI needs of industrial and automotive markets. It additionally comes at what NXP's General Manager of Secure Connected Edge, Rafael Sotomayor, called a transformative time, marked by new innovations such as generative AI helping to deliver improvements in efficiency, sustainability, predictability and functionality.

"Together, we can help our customers simplify complexity and accelerate time to market as they create transformative AI systems," Sotomayor said.

Write to Connor Hart at connor.hart@wsj.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250210005515:0-nxp-inks-307-million-deal-for-ai-processor-company/)
