---
title: "Global Equities Roundup: Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-14 09:16:00"
summary: "The latest Market Talks covering Equities. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.2016 ET - Singapore's FTSE Straits Times Index falls 0.4% to 3867.97 as investors digest U.S. President Trump's tariff actions. Trump ordered officials to address what he described as \"unfair\" conduct by trading partners, a move..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The latest Market Talks covering Equities. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.

2016 ET - Singapore's FTSE Straits Times Index falls 0.4% to 3867.97 as investors digest U.S. President Trump's tariff actions. Trump ordered officials to address what he described as "unfair" conduct by trading partners, a move toward potentially wide-ranging tariffs, Phillip Securities Research team says in commentary. However, Trump's plan also didn't include immediate levies, the team adds. Among the worst performers on the benchmark index, Singapore Exchange slips 5.1%, DFI Retail Group falls 1.7%, and Seatrium is down 1.6%. Meanwhile, Mapletree Logistics Trust rises 1.6% and Frasers Logistics & Commercial Trust adds 1.15%. (ronnie.harui@wsj.com)

2015 ET - Computershare's price-to-earnings is well above its 15-year average, suggesting to Morgan Stanley analyst Andrei Stadnik that the stock's re-rating may have come ahead of schedule. He points out in a note to clients that the share-registry provider's margin income--interest earned on cash held for dividends--is likely to fall from 80% of pretax profit to about 65% in fiscal 2026. Stadnik says the stock is more sensitive to rate moves than either banks or insurers, with EPS growth into fiscal 2026 looking limited. MS lifts its target price 18% to A$36.60 but maintains an equal-weight rating on the stock. Shares are up 0.7% at A$42.875. (stuart.condie@wsj.com)

2012 ET - Kakao's 2025 earnings could be pressured by slower-than-expected recovery in its targeted advertising and e-commerce markets and higher-than-expected costs for artificial intelligence-related services, Daiwa Capital analysts Thomas Y. Kwon and Joon Lee write in a note. They lower their 2025 EPS forecast for the South Korean mobile internet company by 16%. Still, they positively note Kakao's planned new AI services for users in 1H and potentially strong growth momentum in user traffic, advertisement revenue and operating profit from 2H. Daiwa cuts its target price for the stock by 2.8% to KRW54,800 but keeps a buy rating. Shares are 0.6% lower at KRW39,950. (kwanwoo.jun@wsj.com)

2011 ET - CelcomDigi's outlook appears less appealing, Maybank IB analyst Tan Chi Wei says in a note. Given the telco's weaker-than-expected 4Q 2024 results and more conservative 2025 guidance, a sharp net profit recovery may not materialize, he reckons. Even though unchanged merger synergy savings is positive, elevated IT capital expenditure could limit earnings growth, he adds. Tan cuts CelcomDigi's 2025-2026 net profit estimates by 25% and 28%, respectively, to reflect the company's tepid guidance. Maybank downgrades CelcomDigi's rating to hold from buy and cuts its target price to MYR3.80 from MYR4.50. Shares are 1.0% lower at MYR3.83. (yingxian.wong@wsj.com)

2006 ET - Malaysia's benchmark Kuala Lumpur Composite Index is flat at 1592.55. External headwinds may weigh on the local bourse with foreign funds returning to net selling, Apex Securities says in a note. While bargain hunting may emerge, a lack of fresh domestic catalysts could limit gains, the brokerage reckons. Investors are awaiting Malaysia's 4Q 2024 GDP data later in the day, it says. Gold-related stocks may benefit from rising prices, while the tech sector could track Nasdaq's positive momentum, it adds. Among the gainers, Press Metal Aluminium adds 1.2% and Sunway Bhd. is up 1.1%. Meanwhile, Mr. D.I.Y. Group is down 0.6% and CelcomDigi is 1.0% lower. (yingxian.wong@wsj.com)

1947 ET - High-end glass bottle manufacturer Saverglass is showing signs of life after a difficult start under Orora's ownership, but tariffs are clouding the outlook. Saverglass has its strongest order book in 18 months, driven by demand in North America for bourbon and tequila. "However, order book lift needs to flow through to sales and tariffs are now a complicating factor," Macquarie says. "Saverglass has production agility across its global network to manage potential tariff impacts." Macquarie has an outperform call on Orora, which is down another 0.2% today. (david.winning@wsj.com; @dwinningWSJ)

1937 ET - For Spark NZ, this year likely won't be as bad as 2024, which included two downgrades to its guidance. Still, Forsyth Barr says the New Zealand telco's improvement will be driven by cost savings rather than revenue growth. Analyst Aaron Ibbotson expects Spark NZ's cash flow generation will be positive again, partly due to big cut in capex. But while its free cash flow is improving, it won't cover its dividend in FY 2025, Forsyth Barr says. "Further non-core assets sales may be announced in order to cover its dividend shortfall or fund its data center developments," Forsyth Barr says. Spark NZ is due to report its 1H results on Feb. 21. (david.winning@wsj.com; @dwinningWSJ)

1935 ET - Temple & Webster's first-half result gives its bulls at Morgan Stanley even more confidence that the Australian furniture retailer can achieve all its targets. They trim their revenue forecasts following a slightly soft start to the latest fiscal half, but still anticipate annual revenue of A$897.8 million by fiscal 2027. That's within touching distance of Temple & Webster's A$1 billion mid-term target. They tell clients in a note that factors including growing AI capabilities, balance-sheet strength and the home-improvement opportunity open to the company aren't reflected in the share price. MS lifts its target price by 41% to A$18.50 and keeps an overweight rating on the stock. Shares are up 7.7% at A$17.38. (stuart.condie@wsj.com)

1932 ET - South Korea's benchmark Kospi rises 0.2% to 2589.19 in early trade as biotech and robotics stocks advance. Retail investors are net buyers as Wall Street's overnight gains are supporting sentiment. Markets seem relieved after President Trump ordered federal agencies to study reciprocal tariffs by April 1, suggesting there won't be any immediate tariff imposition. Index heavyweight Samsung Electronics is up 0.7%. Collaborative and humanoid robot maker Rainbow Robotics rises 6.7%. Biosimilar company Samsung Biologics adds 1.6%. USD/KRW is 0.3% lower at 1,442.85 in Seoul onshore trading. South Korea's 10-year government bond yield is down 0.7 bps at 2.872%. (kwanwoo.jun@wsj.com)

1929 ET - Japan's Nikkei Stock Average is down 0.3% at 39342.76 in early trade as falls in heavy machinery makers and trading houses weigh, despite some gains in electronics stocks. The broader Topix market index is up 0.2% at 2770.04. IHI is down 2.2% and Itochu is 1.7% lower while Hitachi is up 3.0% and Sony Group is 7.8% higher. USD/JPY is at 152.67, down from 154.02 as of Thursday's Tokyo stock market close. Investors are closely watching domestic earnings as well as U.S. trade policies. Eneos Holdings and Asahi Group Holdings are set to release their quarterly results later in the day. (kosaku.narioka@wsj.com; @kosakunarioka)

1925 ET - Origin Energy's dividend looks safe despite the drag on free cash flow and net debt from the forward sale of 30 liquefied natural gas cargoes from the APLNG project in 2018, Citi says. The cargoes are due to be delivered to Japan's Kansai Electric from 2025. "The price will not be today's market price, but the US$1.1 billion that was forward sold by APLNG," analyst James Byrne says. While that equates to US$37 million per cargo, there is no cash flow earned, Citi says. Origin's balance sheet is in good shape, meaning it can stretch its payout ratio beyond the minimum 50% framework to compensate for the drag on cash flow, Citi says; "A progressive dividend policy is likely still the right way to think about the outlook." (david.winning@wsj.com; @dwinningWSJ)

1916 ET - Treasury Wine Estates' bulls at Goldman Sachs think that the Australian producer needs to build market confidence in sell-through rates of its prestige Penfolds brand in China. The GS analysts are cautious on management claims that second-half Penfolds sales are constrained by supply. They tell clients in a note that their checks on retailers have uncovered discounted prices for Penfolds Bin 389, as well as parallel import products heavily discounted relative to official prices. GS keeps a buy rating and A$12.90 target price on the stock, but say more evidence is needed to justify a share-price re-rating. The stock is up 4.4% at A$10.97. (stuart.condie@wsj.com)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250213018037:0/)
