---
title: "News Highlights: Top Global Markets News of the Day - Monday at 7 PM ET"
date: "2025-02-11 08:00:00"
summary: "Trump Imposes Global 25% Steel, Aluminum Tariffs'This is the beginning of making America rich again,' president says.Nasdaq Leads U.S. Stocks HigherU.S. stocks rose Monday as investors shrugged off the risk that President Trump's planned steel and aluminum tariffs could ignite a trade war.Republicans Bank on Growth Boom to Claim Budget..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

**Trump Imposes Global 25% Steel, Aluminum Tariffs**

'This is the beginning of making America rich again,' president says.

**Nasdaq Leads U.S. Stocks Higher**

U.S. stocks rose Monday as investors shrugged off the risk that President Trump's planned steel and aluminum tariffs could ignite a trade war.

**Republicans Bank on Growth Boom to Claim Budget Math Adds Up**

The approach is crucial to convincing GOP colleagues-and voters-that Trump's plans won't make U.S. finances worse.

**For CEOs and Bankers, the Trump Euphoria Is Fading Fast**

The deals market had its quietest January in a decade, curtailed by the uncertainty delivered in the president's first weeks.

**France Taps Nuclear Power in Race for AI Supremacy**

Macron aims to dedicate a gigawatt of nuclear power to create one of the world's largest AI-computing facilities.

**Tech Firms Want to Upend the Pentagon. The Old Defense Guard Has Lessons for Them.**

Upstart defense contractors such as Palantir are on the rise. In the future, though, they may not be immune to the problems that have burned their legacy peers.

**China's Consumer Inflation Accelerated in January**

China's consumer inflation accelerated in January as food and service prices climbed ahead of the Lunar New Year holiday, official data showed Sunday.

**Trump Tells U.S. Treasury to Stop Minting Pennies**

President Trump called the minting of the coin a waste of money, reviving a longstanding debate about getting rid of the penny.

**China's Strategy in Trade War: Threaten U.S. Tech Companies**

Officials in Beijing are building a list of potential targets for antitrust probes, hoping to influence tech executives close to President Trump.

**Vance, Musk Criticize Federal Judge for Blocking DOGE From Treasury System**

The broadside against the court order signals tensions ahead between the White House and the judiciary.

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250210012223:0/)
