---
title: "Tax Prep Fees Are Through the Roof. Why You Should Just Pay Up. — Barrons.com"
date: "2025-02-08 17:00:00"
summary: "By Karen HubeExpect to pay record high fees for 2024 tax preparation services this season.Fees have climbed as much as 40% over the past five years as accounting firms struggle to hire fresh talent to replace retiring workers, and as tax preparation becomes more time consuming due to an increasingly..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Karen Hube

Expect to pay record high fees for 2024 tax preparation services this season.

Fees have climbed as much as 40% over the past five years as accounting firms struggle to hire fresh talent to replace retiring workers, and as tax preparation becomes more time consuming due to an increasingly complex tax code.

"The demand for our services is growing and the number of people to do the work is harder and harder to find, so naturally that will drive rates up," says Chris Spurio, president of financial services at the accounting firm CBIZ. "Rates have been going up anywhere from 6% to 10% a year."

Think twice before you raise a stink about it. Firms are managing workloads by weeding out clients, so be on your best behavior with your tax preparer. If you're a pain in the neck, you may get dropped.

"Any client who is a hassle — maybe it's their personality, or they're the clients who get information to you at the very last minute — are the first to go," says Mike Piper, a certified public accountant who follows tax preparation trends in his Oblivious Investor blog.

While preparers of all types have raised fees in recent years, how much more you are being charged depends largely on the designation of your preparer.

Average set fees charged by CPAs for preparing Form 1040s jumped 35% in just three years between 2021 and 2023, while enrolled agents raised rates by 24%, according to the National Association of Tax Professionals.

Fees also depend on whether you are a new or existing client.

New clients start at a higher rate than existing clients and the spread between fees for new and old clients widened between 2021 and 2023, with new clients paying 6.3% more in 2023 versus 4% more in 2021, according to National Association of Tax Professionals data.

In many cases, new pricing structures have been ushered in with fee increases.

"The main pricing methodology has in the past been to charge set fees for certain forms and schedules," says Jennifer Van Elzen, the association's director of member relations and analytics. "There's a growing trend toward charging a set fee plus costs based on the complexity so preparers are sure to be compensated for the time they put in."

The average cost to prepare a complex tax return including a Form 1040, a Schedule A for itemized deductions and a Schedule D for capital gains was $766 in 2023, 54% more compared with an average $498 in 2019 under traditional pricing that doesn't factor in complexity, according to the association.

Bumps in fees can also be used to cull clients.

"Accountants who don't want to have an awkward conversation may raise their rates and hope you go away," says Jason Watson, an accountant at WCG CPAs & Advisors in Colorado Springs, Colo.

If you are in the market for a new tax preparer, be sure to ask questions not only about pricing, but about credentials.

The Internal Revenue Service doesn't require minimum competency standards, and non-credentialed tax preparers make up a growing share of tax preparers as many CPAs have retired and left a talent void, according to the Taxpayer Advocate Service.

Non-credentialed tax preparers account for more inaccurate returns than credentialed ones, according to the Taxpayer Advocate, which is part of the IRS.

Among credentialed preparers are CPAs, who must typically have 150 college credit hours in accounting and one or two years of work experience depending on state law, and complete a CPA exam; enrolled agents, who must complete 72 hours of education every three years; and tax attorneys.

Anyone else can hang out a single as a tax preparer after taking about 15 minutes to apply and receive a Preparer Tax Identification Number on the IRS's website.

Non-credentialed preparers can choose to participate in the IRS's Annual Filing Season Program education curriculum, but that isn't a requirement.

Some 340,000 accountants and auditors exited the field between 2021 and 2023, the last year for which data is available, according to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics.

Meanwhile, the number of college students graduating with accounting degrees has been declining in recent years.

"This is in part because compensation for entry level accountants hasn't kept up," Piper says. "The national average is just under $55,000. My first accounting job working in tax prep was in 2007 and I made $48,000."

Efforts to encourage students to consider accounting majors have been under way by accounting firms, universities, industry groups and lawmakers.

Earlier this year, Ohio lawmakers voted to eliminate a 150-hour undergraduate-credit-hour requirement for an accounting degree so the coursework will be more manageable in four years rather than five. Illinois proposed a bill to reduce credit hours to 120 from 150.

Such changes could build on early signs of improvement: There was a 12% increase in accounting majors who enrolled in universities in the fall of 2024 compared with the previous year, according to the National Student Clearinghouse Research Center.

Meantime, get your documents to your preparer as soon as possible.

"If you're not collaborative or you don't have a sense of urgency, that prevents us from doing our job," Watson says. "Then we have to say, 'Eh, maybe you're not for us.'"

Write to editors@barrons.com

This content was created by Barron's, which is operated by Dow Jones & Co. Barron's is published independently from Dow Jones Newswires and The Wall Street Journal.

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250208000589:0/)
