---
title: "Cineverse Acquires North American Rights to Wolf Creek: Legacy, the Hotly Anticipated Third Installment of the Outback Slasher Franchise, From Architect Global"
date: "2025-02-13 01:00:00"
summary: "Cineverse Acquires North American Rights to Wolf Creek: Legacy, the Hotly Anticipated Third Installment of the Outback Slasher Franchise, From Architect GlobalPR NewswireLOS ANGELES, Feb. 12, 2025John Jarratt Reprises His Role as Mick Taylor, the Crocodile Dundee of Serial Killers!LOS ANGELES, Feb. 12, 2025 /PRNewswire/ — Cineverse , a next-generation..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Cineverse Acquires North American Rights to Wolf Creek: Legacy, the Hotly Anticipated Third Installment of the Outback Slasher Franchise, From Architect Global

PR Newswire

LOS ANGELES, Feb. 12, 2025

John Jarratt Reprises His Role as Mick Taylor, the Crocodile Dundee of Serial Killers!

LOS ANGELES, Feb. 12, 2025 /PRNewswire/ — Cineverse , a next-generation entertainment studio, and Bloody Disgusting, its horror division, have announced today the acquisition of Wolf Creek: Legacy, the third film of the incredibly popular slasher franchise. The announcement was made ahead of the European Film Market (EFM). Filming begins this year with an anticipated theatrical release in the fall of 2026.

John Jarratt will reprise his role as the infamous Outback Killer, Mick Taylor. The cast will also include Jay Ryan and Laura Gordon.

Sean Lahiff (Carnifex) will direct while franchise creator Greg McLean will produce, alongside Bianca Martino, for Emu Creek Pictures. Lahiff is a frequent McLean collaborator serving as editor on Wolf Creek 2 and the accompanying Wolf Creek TV series.

Wolf Creek: Legacy follows a family of American tourists who wander innocently into Mick Taylor's (Jarratt) hunting grounds. When the parents sacrifice themselves to save their children, the kids find themselves alone, lost and hunted in the vast Australian wilderness.

McLean, the director of the previous Wolf Creek films, will produce alongside Jeremy Bolt (Resident Evil franchise) and Kristian Moliere (The Babadook), with Adrian Speckert and Cory Todd Hughes serving as Executive Producers.

Greg McLean; "I'm thrilled to be returning to Wolf Creek with this exciting creative team, led by director Sean Lahiff, armed with a fantastic and genuinely frightening script. Mick Taylor will be terrorizing tourists, horror fans and the big screen once again very soon!"

"Wolf Creek is one of the greatest slasher movies of all time with one of the most terrifying villains," said Erick Opeka, Cineverse's Chief Strategy Officer and President. "We're incredibly excited to bring Mick Taylor back to the big screen in what will be the perfect addition to our library alongside Terrifier 3 and our reimagining of Silent Night, Deadly Night."

"Wolf Creek was a terrifying, Texas Chain Saw-inspired nightmare that left an undeniable mark on the genre," added Brad Miska, VP of Bloody Disgusting for Cineverse. "As a longtime fan, I couldn't be more excited to be part of Wolf Creek: Legacy and to help bring the franchise back to theaters. Get ready--Mick Taylor is back, and the outback has never been more dangerous."

Sean Lahiff: "Wolf Creek: Legacy will add a new chapter to the Wolf Creek saga and Mick Taylor's iconic path of destruction. It will be a raw and gritty chase across the outback, and I can't wait to unleash this bold and terrifying cinematic experience on longtime fans and newcomers to the franchise."

The deal was negotiated by Executive Director, Acquisitions, Brandon Hill on behalf of Cineverse with Calum Gray of Architect Global

About Cineverse Entertainment

Cineverse super-serves passionate audiences by distributing content across all windows and platforms, from theatrical to digital to physical. This most recently includes the breakout box office success Terrifier 3 and the upcoming reimagined features in the Silent Night Deadly Night and The Toxic Avenger franchises.

About Cineverse

Cineverse is a next-generation entertainment studio that empowers creators and entertains fans with a wide breadth of content through the power of technology. It has developed a new blueprint for delivering entertainment experiences to passionate audiences and results for its partners with unprecedented efficiency, and distributes more than 71,000 premium films, series, and podcasts. Cineverse connects fans with bold, authentic, independent stories. Properties include the highest-grossing unrated film in U.S. history; dozens of streaming fandom channels; a premier podcast network; top horror destination Bloody Disgusting; and more. Powering visionary storytelling with cutting-edge innovation, Cineverse's proprietary streaming tools and AI technology drive revenue and reach to redefine the next era of entertainment. For more information, visit home.cineverse.com.

CONTACTS:

For Media, The Lippin Group for Cineverse

cineverse@lippingroup.com

For Investors, Julie Milstead

investorrelations@cineverse.com

View original content to download multimedia:https://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/cineverse-acquires-north-american-rights-to-wolf-creek-legacy-the-hotly-anticipated-third-installment-of-the-outback-slasher-franchise-from-architect-global-302374871.html

SOURCE Cineverse Corp.

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250212010460:0/)
