---
title: "Tech, Media & Telecom Roundup: Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-13 01:20:00"
summary: "The latest Market Talks covering Technology, Media and Telecom. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires at 4:20 ET, 12:20 ET and 16:50 ET.1150 ET - Apple could be getting a much-needed sales boost in China. The tech company partnered with Alibaba to co-develop Chinese AI features that have been submitted..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The latest Market Talks covering Technology, Media and Telecom. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires at 4:20 ET, 12:20 ET and 16:50 ET.

1150 ET - Apple could be getting a much-needed sales boost in China. The tech company partnered with Alibaba to co-develop Chinese AI features that have been submitted to China's cyberspace regulator for approval, Bank of America analyst Wamsi Mohan says in a research note, citing a report from The Information. iPhone sales have been pressured in China, falling for six consecutive quarters. CEO Tim Cook noted last month that iPhone sales are stronger in regions where AI tools are available. "We believe Apple can regain share in the Chinese market if they are able to launch Apple Intelligence successfully to compete with Huawei/Xiaomi's currently available AI offerings," Mohan writes. Alibaba ADRs rise 4.7%, on track for a two-year high. Apple shares rise 1%. (connor.hart@wsj.com)

1059 ET - Super Micro Computer is guiding for a big 60% jump in FY26 revenue that has JPMorgan analysts raising their own estimates, albeit not as high as the company's management. They say in a research note that it is too early to underwrite the upbeat view given limited visibility around the easing of supply chain constraints for next-generation chips. The upcoming AI server product cycle is also more competitive now, as Super Micro's peers have stronger portfolios and are looking to have bigger roles in the industry, the analysts say. Many of those peers have also mentioned near-term margin concerns for AI server offerings, undermining Super Micro's confidence that margins could improve for next-gen AI servers, they say. (dean.seal@wsj.com)

1044 ET - Super Micro Computer's plan to have several regulatory filings finalized and released prior to the February 25 deadline, should reduce uncertainty for investors, Wedbush analysts Matt Bryson and Antoine Legault say in a research note. JPMorgan analysts raise their price targets on the company to $35 from $23, "largely on the back of the increased conviction from the management team to meet regulatory deadlines," they say in a research note. For that same reason, the JPMorgan analysts are ascribing a higher earnings multiple to the stock. That said, the delayed filings marked Super Micro's second flirtation with questionable financials and may continue to weigh on its perceived risk profile, the Wedbush analysts say in their note. Super Micro Computer climbs 1.5% and is up 29% year-to-date. (dean.seal@wsj.com)

1028 ET - Super Micro Computer is benefiting from an upbeat FY26 outlook that anticipates a robust AI server revenue cycle on the horizon, JPMorgan analysts say in a research note. The company is guiding for $40 billion in revenue that year, well above consensus estimates. Its FY25 guidance also implies a strong revenue inflection in 4Q, the analysts say. The outlook provides a nice upside surprise against a challenging near-term backdrop, they say, but the upcoming AI server product cycle is much more competitive now that Super Micro's peers have stronger portfolios, the analysts add. Super Micro Computer climbs 5.3% to $40.66. (dean.seal@wsj.com)

0813 ET - Vertiv slumps despite a strong 4Q report as investors punish management's conservative approach to guidance. The maker of cooling and power equipment for data centers maintained guidance it provided in November for adjusted earnings of $3.50 to $3.60 a share in 2025, and raised its sales outlook by $75 million at the midpoint to a range of about $9.1 billion to $9.3 billion. Investors seem to have wanted more. Shares are down 7% at $114.14 premarket. Management tends to be conservative with initial outlooks, JPMorgan analyst Stephen Tusa said in a research note on Tuesday, adding that he expected the company to reaffirm its initial outlook. (dean.seal@wsj.com)

0751 ET - The cost of insuring China's sovereign debt against default using credit default swaps falls to a two-year low, boosted by news about AI advancements from Chinese companies. Stocks of Chinese electric vehicle manufacturer BYD have rallied following news that it plans to integrate software from AI company DeepSeek in its cars, Swissquote Bank's Ipek Ozkardeskaya says in a note. "Chinese tech stocks are surfing on the DeepSeek wave," she says. China's five-year credit default swaps fall 4 basis points to 49bps, a low last reached in January 2023, S&P Global Market Intelligence data show. (miriam.mukuru@wsj.com)

0515 ET - Finland's Nokia welcomes the European Commission's intention to withdraw a hotly-debated plan to regulate royalty payouts for standardized technologies used in smartphones and connected cars, the company says in a statement. "We share the Commission's goals for more transparent and efficient licensing" of so-called standard essential patents, a spokesperson says, adding that the commission's first stab at drafting the rules was flawed. "It would have had an adverse impact on the global innovation ecosystem," they say. They add that it would have reduced incentives for Europe's high-tech companies to invest in developing new standards for technologies like 6G. "The Commission's willingness to rethink its approach on this important topic is a positive step," they say.(edith.hancock@wsj.com)

0456 ET - Teamviewer's 2025 guidance supports analysts' overall forecasts, Morgan Stanley analysts say in a note. The software provider is expected to deliver 3%-5% revenue growth, excluding 1E's acquisition. Annual recurring revenue should grow 7.5%-11% to 815 million-840 million euros, the analysts say. Although management reiterated after 1E's acquisition that it expected to be back onto a double-digit revenue growth run-rate from 2027 onward, this is expected to remain a "show me"-story given its overall postpandemic decelerating curve, the analysts say. Focus is likely to build around how 1E can help contribute to the company's overall growth rate, Morgan Stanley says. Shares are up 5.9% at 12.54 euros. (anthony.orunagoriainoff@dowjones.com)

0418 ET - The ripple effects of Chinese AI company DeepSeek's breakthrough may lead to a re-rating of Chinese stocks, according to Raymond Ma, Invesco's chief investment officer for Mainland China and Hong Kong. DeepSeek's R1 model is likely to directly benefit various sectors, including E-commerce, cloud services, AI smartphone and auto, he writes in a note. Its technology could also enhance productivity and boost revenue for many industries as well, he adds. Chinese equities are currently trading at 10X its earnings, a 55% discount to the U.S. market. "There is a strong case for potential re-rating, especially for Hong Kong-listed Chinese stocks, in which the valuation is much more attractive," Ma says. Opportunities for the re-rating of Chinese equities may arise when the market reassesses the country's innovative capabilities and corporate earnings growth after DeepSeek's breakthrough, he adds. (sherry.qin@wsj.com)

0415 ET - The European Commission's bid to deregulate and simplify some of its existing rules is a mixed bag for tech companies, lobby group Computer & Communications Industry Association says. "This whole process feels haphazard, with many unnecessary proposals still left in place," says Daniel Friedlaender, CCIA's head of Europe. In a work program published late Tuesday, the Commission withdrew dozens of proposals that would affect the tech sector if they became law. CCIA, whose members include Amazon, Apple, Google and Meta, called the move a positive step, but warned that there are now 30 new initiatives in the pipeline that target the digital economy. It also argues that one scrapped proposal to regulate royalty payouts on standardized technologies like 6G should have stayed. (edith.hancock@wsj.com)

0400 ET - AI developments in drug discovery, diagnostics, patient data analysis and hospital solutions would be a key area for investors to watch in China's healthcare industry, according to Cyrus Ng of Deutsche Bank Research. Investors are eager to understand the application in different industries, including the healthcare and pharmaceutical space, Ng notes. In diagnostics, the usage of AI can automate functions, such as automated image analysis in pathology and cytology, he notes, adding that it can also improve diagnostics efficiency and reduces human errors. Another thing worth monitoring is how some companies plan to develop their own AI platforms to accelerate the drug discovery process, he notes. (tracy.qu@wsj.com)

0358 ET - JD.com's ability to gain meaningful food-delivery market share from Meituan and Alibaba's Ele.me is in doubt, DBS says in a research note. The Chinese e-commerce company officially launched its food-delivery service on Tuesday after months of small-scale operations, and restaurants that register with JD Takeaway before May 1 will be exempt from commissions for the year. By contrast, Meituan charges merchants a 7% fee. However, DBS thinks "the strong customer moat of the leading players" would make it difficult for JD to gain market share despite its low take rate and some logistics synergies between its instant-delivery and food-delivery businesses. This new business could only have an around 5% impact on the company's earnings during this testing phase in 2025, DBS adds. JD.com shares ended at HK$156.10. (sherry.qin@wsj.com)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250212010768:0/)
