---
title: "Global Equities Roundup: Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-11 07:59:00"
summary: "The latest Market Talks covering Equities. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.1859 ET - Ansell's first-half result may give investors the mistaken impression that it is a growth stock, Morgans analyst Derek Jellinek says. He acknowledges that the protective garment manufacturer's performance was stronger than he had..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The latest Market Talks covering Equities. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.

1859 ET - Ansell's first-half result may give investors the mistaken impression that it is a growth stock, Morgans analyst Derek Jellinek says. He acknowledges that the protective garment manufacturer's performance was stronger than he had anticipated, but tells clients in a note that it was largely driven by acquisition gains, cost reductions, and one-off items. Customers have now finished restocking after running down inventory built up during the Covid-19 pandemic, he says. This spells an end to what he calls "easy gains" by Ansell's healthcare unit. With tariffs now a factor and potential of sales leakage from a change in processes, Jellinek is cautious. Morgans raises its target price by 23% to A$33.38 but keeps a hold rating on the stock, which is down 2.75% at A$36.73. (stuart.condie@wsj.com)

1839 ET - Ansell's bull at Macquarie continues to see value in the stock despite the share-price surge that met the protective-garment maker's stronger-than-expected first-half earnings. An analyst note from the investment bank tells clients that the Australia-listed company's upgraded full-year guidance implies 4% in annual organic Ebit growth. The bank's analyst is slightly more optimistic on this metric, and forecasts 5% organic Ebit growth. The stock jumped 8.1% on release of the first-half result, but Macquarie maintains its outperform rating. Its target price rises 26% to A$40.30. Shares are down 2.6% at A$36.79. (stuart.condie@wsj.com)

1831 ET - Macquarie takes a more bullish view of dividends from iron-ore miner Fortescue, starting from its 1H result this month. The bank raises its payout ratio to 70% of net profit, from 50%, meaning it now expects a dividend of A$0.52/share. "Fortescue will probably lever up to maintain high payout ratios as EPS declines and iron ore prices revert to long-term normalized levels," Macquarie says. That view prompts it to raise FY 2026-2028 payout expectations to 60%, which lifts its dividend forecasts by 20% over the period. "Under these assumptions (with falling EPS across FY 2025-2028), we expect Fortescue to yield 6.7%/4.5%/3.1%, respectively." The bank retains an underperform call on Fortescue. (david.winning@wsj.com; @dwinningWSJ)

1831 ET - Australian electronics retailer JB Hi-Fi keeps its bull at Macquarie on the expectation of continued earnings resilience. A Macquarie analyst note to investors posits that JB Hi-Fi's track record indicates that it can offset higher goods costs by managing its own operating costs. That said, persistent competition could weigh on gross profit, the analysts add. They point out that JB Hi-Fi's better-than-expected first-half momentum has continued into its fiscal second half, and see potential for a capital-management announcement in August thanks to what they call a pristine balance sheet. Macquarie raises its target price by 2.8% to A$111.00 and keeps an outperform rating on the stock. Shares are down 1.75% at A$96.07. (stuart.condie@wsj.com)

1828 ET - Mining company South32's interim dividend could disappoint investors, reckons Macquarie. While South32 is likely to maintain its payout ratio at 40% of underlying earnings, the issue is that 1H profits will be thinner than the market expects, Macquarie says. It tips South32 to declare an interim dividend of 2.3 U.S. cents per share, representing a 27% miss to consensus forecasts. "However, given the materiality of the expected FY 2025 yield (1% annualized), we expect the focus at the results to be on free cash flow," Macquarie says. South32 is due to report its 1H result on Thursday. (david.winning@wsj.com; @dwinningWSJ)

1825 ET - SGH's shares rise 9% soon after Australia's market opens, with Jefferies calling out profit margins at building materials unit Boral as the highlight of its 1H result. SGH reported a 14.3% Ebit margin for Boral in 1H, well above consensus forecasts of 11.7%. That drove a 9% beat to market hopes for Boral's Ebit. "Margin delivery is impressive given weaker volumes and likely operating deleverage," analyst Kai Erman says. SGH reaffirmed expectations for high single-digit Ebit growth in FY 2025, which Jefferies considers to be conservative. Jefferies retains a hold call on SGH. (david.winning@wsj.com; @dwinningWSJ)

1812 ET - CAR Group's guidance downgrade for its U.S. business doesn't worry Macquarie analysts, who see double-digit annual revenue growth as sustainable. They acknowledge that CAR's move to lower its outlook for Trader Interactive revenue growth prompted analysts to debate its significance, but ultimately decide that it was related to a delayed price rise. The Macquarie analysts tell clients in a note that it the company is sensible to align timing with the seasonal recovery of the recreational vehicle market. Macquarie raises its target price 5.1% to A$39.00 and stays neutral on the stock, which is down 3.3% at A$37.10. (stuart.condie@wsj.com)

1741 ET - Morgan Stanley is bullish about bottle maker Orora despite tariff threats from the White House. "Though a 25% tariff on Mexican goods into the U.S. would be a net negative for Orora, we think this is well and truly in the share price at current levels," analyst Andrew G. Scott says. While the Americas region accounts for 28% of sales at Orora's Saverglass business, much of this volume is manufactured and sold within Mexico, Morgan Stanley says. Tequila is Saverglass's most significant spirits category, accounting for 23% of spirits volumes. Tequila is classified as protected designation of origin, meaning it cannot be sourced from other, tariff-free markets, Morgan Stanley says. "Orora does have the ability to serve U.S. markets from other locations, in particular from the RAK facility in Dubai," the bank adds. (david.winning@wsj.com; @dwinningWSJ)

1723 ET - Industrial conglomerate SGH's shares could outperform Australia's benchmark ASX today after its 1H Ebit beat consensus hopes. SGH reported Ebit of A$843 million, up 10% on year and supported by better-than-expected margins at construction unit Boral. In a note, Barrenjoey says consensus forecasts had pointed to 5% Ebit growth. Still, SGH maintained guidance for high single-digit growth in annual Ebit, which implies a slower pace of improvement in 2H. "For FY 2025, consensus interest and tax forecasts will need to rise, which may drive negative EPS revisions," says analyst Brook Campbell-Crawford. "However, we think the large operational beat is enough for the shares to outperform." Barrenjoey has an overweight call on SGH, which ended Monday at A$48.66. (david.winning@wsj.com; @dwinningWSJ)

1716 ET - Australia's S&P/ASX 200 looks set to rise at the open, following a bounce in U.S. equities. ASX futures are up by 0.4% ahead of Tuesday's session, which will give investors a chance to respond to earnings reports and trading updates by companies including financial giant Macquarie, engineering and construction conglomerate SGH, and small-appliance manufacturer Breville. Macquarie said its profit for the nine months through December was broadly in line with that of a year earlier. Australian gold stocks could find support from further strength in the price of the yellow metal. In the U.S., the DJIA rose 0.4%, the S&P 500 added 0.7%, and the Nasdaq Composite gained 1.0%. (stuart.condie@wsj.com)

1702 ET - Ansell's second-half earnings growth looks likely to be driven by its acquisition from Kimberly-Clark and cost benefits, Citi analyst Mathieu Chevrier writes in a note. He tells clients that about two thirds of the protective-garment manufacturer's fiscal first-half Ebit growth stemmed from the assets acquired from Kimberly-Clark on July 1. The assets are performing better than expected and their integration is ahead of schedule, which Chevrier observes will lead to some cost synergy in the June half. Citi lifts its target price 17% to A$38.00 and keeps a neutral rating on the stock, which is at A$37.77 ahead of the open. (stuart.condie@wsj.com)

1649 ET - A 25% U.S. tariff on Canadian aluminum "will be so destructive for industrial aluminum value chain in the U.S. that it cannot last," says Jean Simard, CEO of the Aluminium Association of Canada. Simard tells WSJ he's hoping the Trump administration will carve out Canadian-made aluminum from the president's decision to impose a 25% tariff on imported steel and aluminum. Simard says small- and mid-sized U.S. manufacturers will be stuck paying vastly more for the metal which is used to build cars, aerospace products, and consumer appliances. "At some point in time, some products will be priced out of the market and replaced by foreign imports," Simard predicts. Canada supplies about 60% of the aluminum the U.S. imports. (paul.vieira@wsj.com; @paulvieira)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250210012213:0/)
