---
title: "Nutella Maker Ferrero to Boost Expansion After Surge in Turnover"
date: "2025-02-14 00:14:00"
summary: "By Andrea FiguerasFerrero Group, the company behind the Nutella and Kinder brands, said it is working to increase its manufacturing capacity after it reported an increase in turnover for fiscal 2024.The Italian sweet-packaged-food company said Thursday that it made turnover of 18.4 billion euros ($19.11 billion) for the year ended..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Andrea Figueras

Ferrero Group, the company behind the Nutella and Kinder brands, said it is working to increase its manufacturing capacity after it reported an increase in turnover for fiscal 2024.

The Italian sweet-packaged-food company said Thursday that it made turnover of 18.4 billion euros ($19.11 billion) for the year ended Aug. 31, 8.9% higher than the prior year, despite higher cocoa prices.

During the period, the company raised total capital investment by 18% to 958 million euros.

The group noted that the year was marked by a challenging economic environment, with volatile commodity prices and inflationary pressures.

In September, Ferrero opened its first chocolate-processing plant in the U.S. The facility, located in Illinois, produces chocolate for the company's leading brands in North America, including Kinder, Ferrero Rocher, Butterfinger and Crunch, and houses a new Kinder Bueno production site.

The group aims to modernize the Stadtallendorf facility and build out its hazelnut sourcing and processing capacity in Chile.

Ferrero, which is headquartered in Luxembourg, has 37 manufacturing plants and a global workforce of 47,517 as of the end of the fiscal year.

Write to Andrea Figueras at andrea.figueras@wsj.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250213011621:0/)
