---
title: "News Highlights: Top Energy News of the Day - Tuesday at 11 AM ET"
date: "2025-02-12 00:15:00"
summary: "Oil aims for 3-day winning streak as traders weigh impact of tariffs and sanctionsOil futures headed higher for a third straight session on Tuesday, with U.S. prices poised to settle at their highest in two weeks, as traders weighed the supply and demand impacts of President Donald's Trump's tariff strategy..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

**Oil aims for 3-day winning streak as traders weigh impact of tariffs and sanctions**

Oil futures headed higher for a third straight session on Tuesday, with U.S. prices poised to settle at their highest in two weeks, as traders weighed the supply and demand impacts of President Donald's Trump's tariff strategy and sanctions on Iran and Russia.

**BP Touts 'New Beginning,' Fundamental Change in Strategy**

BP said profit fell more than expected and that it would reset its strategy, days after reports that activist hedge fund Elliott Management is pushing for change at the company.

**Elliott Builds Over $2.5 Billion Stake in Phillips 66**

The activist investor plans to push the oil refiner to consider selling or spinning off its energy-transportation business.

**Elliott Takes Stake in Struggling Oil Giant BP**

The activist hedge fund is encouraging BP to consider more dramatic moves to restore the once venerable company's fortunes.

**Behind the Oil Industry's Biggest Divorce: Chevron Versus California**

The energy giant sank the state's first successful oil well, kicking off a boom that powered California's economy for more than a century. Goodwill has since gone dry.

**Garcia's Take: TPG's Altus Power Bet May Benefit From Time Alone**

Time may be on TPG's side in its acquisition of Altus Power, as more clarity about President Trump's clean-energy policies down the road may lift the value of renewable-power assets depressed by fears he might revoke tax credits for the sector.

**Energy & Utilities Roundup: Market Talk**

Find insight on BP in the latest Market Talks covering energy and utilities.

**Utility Probes Connection Between Deadly Eaton Fire, Inactive Power Line**

Southern California Edison is examining the role of an idle transmission line near the area where the fire started.

**Conoco Quarterly Net Income Fell, Expects 2025 Production Growth**

Conoco Phillips said fourth-quarter net income declined alongside energy prices but the oil giant forecast production growth in 2025.

**Power Stocks Had Been on an AI Tear. Then Came DeepSeek.**

The efficiency gains of DeepSeek's AI models startled the power industry, which is set to invest billions in electricity projects.

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250211007302:0-news-highlights-top-energy-news-of-the-day-tuesday-at-11-am-et/)
