---
title: "HBX Group Shares Slip on Spanish Stock Market Debut — Update"
date: "2025-02-13 21:19:00"
summary: "By Najat KantouarShares in Spanish travel-technology company HBX Group fell as the company started trading on the Madrid stock exchange, hitting the lower end of its previously guided range.The stock is currently trading around 10.50 euros compared with its initial public offering price of 11.50 euros announced on Monday, implying..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Najat Kantouar

Shares in Spanish travel-technology company HBX Group fell as the company started trading on the Madrid stock exchange, hitting the lower end of its previously guided range.

The stock is currently trading around 10.50 euros compared with its initial public offering price of 11.50 euros announced on Monday, implying a market capitalization of 2.60 billion euros ($2.70 billion).

The company--which houses Hotelbeds, Bedsonline and Roiback--previously set a price range of between 10.50 euros and 12.50 euros a share.

The flotation is viewed as a major test for Europe's IPO markets this year, with private-equity executives hoping for a rebound in activity from a post-pandemic slowdown, when buyout firms struggled to offload investments via listings.

A lack of IPOs and dealmaking activity has left private-equity firms sitting on a record number of unsold assets and so-called dry powder, the amount of money in their funds not yet deployed to buy new businesses.

on Jan. 31, HBX said it had received approvals from the Spanish Securities Market Commission to trade on the Madrid, Barcelona, Bilbao and Valencia stock exchanges.

It raised 725 million euros of new money by issuing 63.04 million shares as part of its IPO and plans to use the money to settle the deferred sale consideration due in respect of the selldown of shares of different members of the group.

As part of HBX's IPO, existing shareholders Canada Pension Plan Investment Board, Prometheus Aggregator and Kiwi Feeder sold 860 million euros worth of shares.

"HBX Group's successful IPO marks a new chapter in our mission to connect a vast network of suppliers and distributors within the highly fragmented leisure travel sector," Chief Executive Nicolas Huss said Thursday.

Founded in 2001, HBX Group is an independent business-to-business travel-technology marketplace that operates in 170 countries and employs more than 3,600 people around the globe.

Also on Thursday, luxury-goods shipping company Ferrari Group PLC started trading on Euronext Amsterdam at 8.60 euros a share. Shares are currently trading at 9.0 euros.

Write to Najat Kantouar at najat.kantouar@wsj.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250213009286:0/)
