---
title: "Canada Regulations Reduced Growth, Business Investment, Data Agency Says"
date: "2025-02-10 22:41:00"
summary: "By Paul VieiraOTTAWA--Canadian government regulations reduced the economy's output, hiring and business investment over a 15-year period, says a Statistics Canada study published Monday.The research emerges as chief executives, economists and former officials call for a revamp of the Canadian economy to make it more resilient amid renewed protectionism in..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Paul Vieira

OTTAWA--Canadian government regulations reduced the economy's output, hiring and business investment over a 15-year period, says a Statistics Canada study published Monday.

The research emerges as chief executives, economists and former officials call for a revamp of the Canadian economy to make it more resilient amid renewed protectionism in the U.S.

The data agency's researchers calculated that regulatory requirements imposed by Canadian authorities were 37% higher in 2021 relative to those of 2006. The accumulation of regulations led to lower growth in Canada's gross domestic product, the study concluded.

The study said the regulations led to a 1.7-percentage-point drop in GDP over the 15-year period, and a 1.3-percentage-point decline in employment.

Meanwhile, the study estimates capital spending was 9% lower due to regulations, and that the accumulation of rules exacerbated the country's poor productivity record. The growth in regulations also led to fewer business startups and weighed on business dynamism, the study said.

"Regulatory accumulation imposes costs and burdens on firms," the authors of the Statistics Canada study wrote.

President Trump's tariff threats have fueled soul-searching among Canada's business and political class, with the realization that the economy needs a revamp. Among the recommendations from business leaders, economists and politicians is that the country needs to scale back regulations and accelerate the approval process for big resource and infrastructure projects.

Canada won a reprieve last week from the Trump administration on a 25% tariff on nonenergy goods and 10% on energy products. This weekend, Trump said he would impose a 25% tariff on steel and aluminum imports, and Canada is the top seller of those commodities to the U.S.

Write to Paul Vieira at paul.vieira@wsj.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250210006352:0-canada-regulations-reduced-growth-business-investment-data-agency-says/)
