---
title: "Global Energy Roundup: Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-11 09:20:00"
summary: "The latest Market Talks covering Energy markets. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.2020 ET - Oil edges higher in early Asian trade. Crude oil has rebounded recently amid signs of tightening supplies, ANZ Research analysts write in a note. Russian oil production fell short of its OPEC+..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The latest Market Talks covering Energy markets. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.

2020 ET - Oil edges higher in early Asian trade. Crude oil has rebounded recently amid signs of tightening supplies, ANZ Research analysts write in a note. Russian oil production fell short of its OPEC+ quota in January, easing oversupply concerns, they say. ANZ notes a report saying the Trump administration has put its peace plan for Ukraine on hold to include Europe in negotiations, adding to growing geopolitical risks. Front-month WTI crude oil futures are 0.1% higher at $72.37/bbl; front-month Brent crude oil futures are 0.1% higher at $75.98/bbl. (amanda.lee@wsj.com)

1526 ET - Crude futures gain ground after falling for three straight weeks as markets shrug off President Trump's announcement of tariffs on steel and aluminum imports into the U.S., while disputes between Israel and Hamas over their cease-fire agreement rekindles some of the geopolitical risk premium recently absent from the market. Israel's declaring Hamas in violation of the ceasefire for postponing the next planned hostage release added to oil's gains, says Mizuho's Robert Yawger. He notes that the rally comes amid builds in U.S. crude stocks as refineries slow down for maintenance, "generally the softest time of the year for energy demand." WTI settles up 1.9% at $72.32 a barrel, and Brent rises 1.6% to $75.87. (anthony.harrup@wsj.com)

1448 ET - Colder weather forecasts for large parts of the U.S. help lift U.S. natural gas futures to start the week. Areas that could be affected by coming winter storms include production regions in the South and Appalachia, "and may raise concerns about potential production freeze-offs," Gelber & Associates says in a note. Also positive for natural gas, pipeline operator Energy Transfer signs an agreement to supply around 450 million cubic feet a day for Cloudburst's AI-focused data center in Texas, pending a final investment decision on the center. Transfer Energy says it's in discussions with other data center developers and "expects this to be the first of many agreements to supply, store and transport natural gas to fuel data centers, electric generation facilities and other power demand customers." The Nymex front month settles up 4.1% at $3.444/mmBtu. (anthony.harrup@wsj.com)

1223 ET - U.S. natural gas prices could face downward pressure from a tariff impact on U.S. GDP growth and that of its trade partners, BMI says in a note. The Fitch Solutions unit sees Henry Hub prices averaging $3.4/mmBtu this year, up from $2.4 last year, with support from strong LNG export demand, below-average storage and growing power-sector use, with gains limited by higher production. But "we note growing risks to U.S. and global gas demand amid the looming trade war with countries that are key buyers of U.S. gas." An economic slowdown in Mexico and others would likely weaken demand for U.S. gas, while a tariff on supplier Canada would likely have a net bullish effect on Henry Hub prices, BMI adds. (anthony.harrup@wsj.com)

1138 ET - High European natural-gas prices are helping to attract a rising share of LNG cargoes to the continent this year, analysts at Morgan Stanley say. So far in 2025, Europe has accounted for approximately 33% of global LNG imports, up from 19% in August and an average of 25% in 2024, according to the U.S. bank. "Low inventories, cold weather, and the end of pipeline flows through Ukraine have all increased Europe's call on LNG so far in 2025," the analysts say. The benchmark Dutch TTF contract is up 4.6% to 58.30 euros a megawatt hour in evening trade, the highest level in two years. Meanwhile, the JKM, the spot Asian LNG benchmark, trades at a $1 discount to the TTF, reflecting milder weather and softness in regional demand. (giulia.petroni@wsj.com)

1049 ET - Corporate bonds issued by companies within U.S. tech, auto and basic materials sectors have a higher exposure to foreign revenue and are more vulnerable to tariffs implemented by President Trump, BNP Paribas credit strategists say in a note. Issuers within services sectors, however, such as healthcare and cruise companies, have lower foreign sales and are better placed to avoid the negative impacts of tariffs, the strategists say. (miriam.mukuru@wsj.com)

1014 ET - Hydro One's rich valuation keeps BofA Securities bearish on the stock, despite praise for the Canadian power company. BofA reinstates coverage with an underperform call and C$44 price target, noting the current valuation premium based on expected 2026 EPS is 47% higher than the next-highest premium of the companies it covers. It says catalysts for any multiple expansion from here are further-dated than its 12-month price objective. Still, BofA argues Hydro One is well run and has among the strongest earnings and rate base growth visibility in the sector. Shares now down 0.6% at C$45.29. (robb.stewart@wsj.com)

0946 ET - U.S. natural gas futures start the week higher as another cold spell makes its way over much of the U.S., driving up expected heating demand. "While a combination of supportive weather, the largest storage deficits since 2022 and bullish technicals may offer short-term upside, resurgent production levels hitting fresh all-time highs over the weekend threaten medium-term weakness," EBW Analytics says in a note. Nymex natural gas is up 2.5% at $3.391/mmBtu. (anthony.harrup@wsj.com)

0857 ET - Oil futures start the week higher after three consecutive weeks of losses as the U.S. plans to place tariffs on all steel and aluminum imports while Chinese retaliatory tariffs on U.S. oil and gas go into effect. The steel and aluminum tariffs "are apparently supportive to oil, dollar, equities, etc.," Ritterbusch says in a note. "Geopolitical premium that had supported oil values across last year have now been replaced by a tariff premium that will remain elevated for at least another three weeks until a White House decision is made regarding hefty tariffs on Canada and Mexico that will directly impact the flow of crude into the U.S.," the firm adds. WTI is up 1.3% at $71.91 a barrel, and Brent is up 1.2% at $75.56 a barrel. (anthony.harrup@wsj.com)

0854 ET - Elliott Management hasn't made a hostile approach to the BP board and will seek a more "suggestivist" approach to get its ideas across, AJ Bell investment director Russ Mould writes. Elliott is reportedly seeking better shareholder value but it is hard to see how it can campaign for higher dividends or share buybacks, he writes. In 2024, BP delivered $5 billion in dividends and ran share buybacks worth $7.3 billion, he says. Elliott might want BP to refocus its strategy on oil-and-gas production, better allocate capex, or shift its listing to the U.S., Mould says. Shares trade up 7.3% at 464.65 pence. (adam.whittaker@wsj.com)

0831 ET - Danish wind-turbine maker Vestas remains well-positioned to execute against a strong backlog, with margin guidance conservative for 2025, Deutsche Bank analyst John Kim writes. The market is pricing in quite a bit of risk into the Vestas share, which feels unjustified given its market position, onshore wind competitiveness, and continued growth in key areas, the bank says. That said, the company has battled issues within the service business, with recent regulation not positive for wind. "We recognize the issues but see more upside risk than downside at current levels." The bank lifts its target price to 150 Danish kroner from 145 kroner. It rates the stock buy. Shares trade 2.9% lower at 102.70 kroner. (dominic.chopping@wsj.com)

0830 ET - Maersk's fourth quarter showed strong performance across all divisions, driven by volume growth and high freight rates, but the outlook for container shipping remains uncertain in 2025, AlphaValue analyst Helene Coumes writes. The outlook depends on the reopening of the Red Sea, which will impact supply. Shorter routes that will become available when the route reopens, coupled with new vessel deliveries, should add total capacity of up to 4 million containers, Coumes adds. However, carriers can manage capacity through sailing at slower speeds and gradual scrapping of older vessels, which was low in 2024. On the demand side, Maersk is optimistic, anticipating volume growth of 4%, although higher U.S. tariffs could hit final demand and trade. Maersk shares trade 1.7% higher at 11,475 Danish kroner. (dominic.chopping@wsj.com)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250210012413:0/)
