---
title: "Nissan Projects Annual Net Loss as It Faces Weak Sales, Takes Restructuring Steps"
date: "2025-02-13 17:30:00"
summary: "(08:42 GMT) *Nissan Motor 3Q Loss Y14.1B Vs. Net Y29.1B &gt;7201.TO(08:42 GMT) *Nissan Motor 3Q Rev Y3.159T Vs. Y3.108T &gt;7201.TO(08:43 GMT) *Nissan 3Q Net Loss Missed Estimated Net Profit of Y5.68B in Poll of Analysts by LSEG(08:45 GMT) *Nissan Cuts Revenue, Operating-Profit Views for FY Ending March(08:51 GMT) *Nissan: To..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

**(08:42 GMT)** \*Nissan Motor 3Q Loss Y14.1B Vs. Net Y29.1B >7201.TO  
**(08:42 GMT)** \*Nissan Motor 3Q Rev Y3.159T Vs. Y3.108T >7201.TO  
**(08:43 GMT)** \*Nissan 3Q Net Loss Missed Estimated Net Profit of Y5.68B in Poll of Analysts by LSEG  
**(08:45 GMT)** \*Nissan Cuts Revenue, Operating-Profit Views for FY Ending March  
**(08:51 GMT)** \*Nissan: To Actively Explore New Partnerships  
**(08:52 GMT)** \*Nissan: To Cut Top Management Positions by 20%  
**(08:54 GMT)** \*Nissan Maintains FY Global Sales Forecast at 3.4M Units  
**(09:30 GMT)** Nissan Projects Annual Net Loss as It Faces Weak Sales, Takes Restructuring Steps

By Kosaku Narioka

Nissan Motor projected a full-year net loss as the automaker took restructuring steps to address weak sales.

The Japanese automaker said Thursday that it booked a net loss of 14.1 billion yen, equivalent to $91.3 million, for the three months ended Dec. 31, compared with a net profit of Y29.1 billion in the year-earlier period. That missed the estimated net profit of Y5.68 billion in a poll of analysts by data provider LSEG.

Third-quarter revenue increased 1.6% to Y3.159 trillion, even as global vehicle sales dropped.

Nissan is in the midst of turnaround efforts partly to address weak sales, especially in China. The company said in November that it planned to cut 9,000 jobs globally and reduce global production capacity by a fifth.

Nissan and Honda on Thursday officially scrapped their planned merger less than two months after announcing it, putting pressure on troubled Nissan to look for other partnerships.

Nissan now expects a Y80.0 billion net loss for the year ending March. It retracted its previous annual net profit projection in November, saying it was examining the costs required for restructuring efforts.

The company continues to project global sales to drop 1.2% to 3.4 million vehicles this fiscal year.

Write to Kosaku Narioka at kosaku.narioka@wsj.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250213004209:0/)
