---
title: "Global Commodities Roundup: Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-11 01:15:00"
summary: "The latest Market Talks covering Commodities. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.1155 ET - Base metal prices rise, with LME three-month copper up 0.2% at $9,456.5 a metric ton and LME three-month aluminum up 1.2% at $2,659 a ton. President Trump has proposed 25% tariffs on aluminum..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The latest Market Talks covering Commodities. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.

1155 ET - Base metal prices rise, with LME three-month copper up 0.2% at $9,456.5 a metric ton and LME three-month aluminum up 1.2% at $2,659 a ton. President Trump has proposed 25% tariffs on aluminum and steel imports, which has generated erratic movements on the markets, ActivTrades' Saverio Berlinzani says in a note. U.S. Midwest domestic hot-rolled coil steel futures are up 6.1% at a 10-month high, while aluminum is gaining on concerns about a potential drop in supply, especially in the manufacturing and automotive areas, Berlinzani writes. Analysts and industry experts expect the tariffs to increase prices, which will inevitably be passed onto final consumers, Berlinzani says. In parallel with an increase in inflation, this could further delay U.S. interest-rate cuts--further damping industrial metal demand, Berlinzani adds. (joseph.hoppe@wsj.com)

1145 ET - Gold futures rise to record highs on safe-haven demand. Futures are up 1.5% at $2,932.10 a troy ounce, having reached $2,938.10 earlier in the session. Gold's gains come as global trade war risks escalate, SP Angel analysts say in a note. President Trump said he will impose 25% tariffs on all steel and aluminum imports into the U.S., and will be looking to outline retaliatory tariffs on imports from a wide range of countries that tax U.S. exports, SP Angel says. China has imposed retaliatory tariffs on $14 billion's worth of goods from the U.S. in a sign the economic conflict is escalating, SP Angel says. A new Chinese pilot program will also allow 10 insurance firms to invest up to 1% of their holdings in gold, equivalent to around $27 billion in new demand, SP Angel adds. (joseph.hoppe@wsj.com)

1134 ET - President Trump announced intentions to levy 25% tariffs on U.S. imports of steel and aluminum, which has injected a fresh round of uncertainty into financial markets. But metal traders are not convinced that a global tariff on aluminum imports in particular will stick, says Natalie Scott-Gray of StoneX in a note. "It is potentially difficult to see a scenario in which global 25% tariffs on aluminium go into action, given the U.S.'s heavy reliance on imports and lack of current domestic capacity," says Scott-Gray. Primary aluminum produced in the U.S. has been on the decline for decades, losing roughly 80% of its domestic production capacity in the past two decades. China has stepped in as the leading producer of aluminum worldwide in that timeframe. (kirk.maltais@wsj.com)

1052 ET - Last week, the USDA reported that it expects higher farm income in 2025, up $41 billion from 2024's levels to $180.1 billion. But without an increased amount of federal aid coming as disaster relief, farm income appears mostly flat, says the American Farm Bureau Federation in a note. Federal money for farm country is forecast to rise over 300% in 2025, coming from The American Relief Act of 2025 passed in late 2024. But even with this, farmers remain uncertain on how they will receive these funds. "Many producers are still waiting for details on when and how these funds will be distributed, creating additional financial uncertainty as unpaid bills from 2024 continue to pile up," says Daniel Munch of the AFBF in a note. (kirk.maltais@wsj.com)

1007 ET - Live cattle futures on the CME are up 0.6% early in trading, with the upward momentum coming amid a smaller figure for weekly slaughters than anticipated by livestock traders. "Weekly cattle slaughter totaled 584K head, a touch smaller than expected, down from 600K the prior week, and our smallest non-holiday week in almost a year," says StoneX in a note. The firm adds that a smaller total is now forecast for this week as well. Most-active lean hog futures are also higher early, trading up 0.3%. (kirk.maltais@wsj.com)

1006 ET - McDonald's says an E. coli outbreak that federal health officials linked to the burger chain is largely behind it. Currently, the only stores being hurt by food-safety concerns are those located near where the outbreak began in the Rocky Mountain region, CEO Chris Kempczinski says on a call with analysts. "We expect to have fully recovered by the beginning of Q2," he adds. Kempczinski also says McDonald's has strong marketing programs and new menu innovations, which are expected to drive results in the new year. McDonald's is up 5% in early trading. (connor.hart@wsj.com)

0954 ET - McDonald's continues to work on opportunities to push new beverages in new and existing stores, as consumers are interested in the products and they deliver appealing profits. The company says in a 4Q earnings call that it remains committed to its beverage-oriented CosMc's test, and has learned that smaller locations with drive-throughs have performed better than some bigger stores. The company said recently it will close some underperforming CosMc's units as it refines the offering. McDonald's is up 4.7% in early trading. (heather.haddon@wsj.com; @heatherhaddon)

0953 ET - McDonald's 2024 was plagued by pressure on spending and food-safety concerns, both of which dragged down results. CFO Ian Borden says on a call with analysts that the quick-service industry was largely hurt by lower spending last year, with McDonald's noticing a significant pullback among families and low-income customers. The burger chain also dealt with the fallout of an E. coli outbreak on its domestic business last year. "Obviously, our performance in 2024 did not meet our expectations," CEO Chris Kempczinski says. Shares rise 4.9% after the release of 4Q results. (connor.hart@wsj.com)

0946 ET - U.S. natural gas futures start the week higher as another cold spell makes its way over much of the U.S., driving up expected heating demand. "While a combination of supportive weather, the largest storage deficits since 2022 and bullish technicals may offer short-term upside, resurgent production levels hitting fresh all-time highs over the weekend threaten medium-term weakness," EBW Analytics says in a note. Nymex natural gas is up 2.5% at $3.391/mmBtu. (anthony.harrup@wsj.com)

0941 ET - The USDA reports that Mexico has purchased 365,000 metric tons of U.S. corn for delivery in the 2024/25 marketing year. Even with an increasingly-tense world trade environment, Mexico is still buying large volumes of U.S. grains. The sale also comes after Mexico dropped its restrictions on GMO corn. Most-active corn futures on the CBOT are unchanged, with trading expected to be tentative ahead of tomorrow's WASDE, although no big revelations for the U.S. corn crop are expected. Traders are focused on how the USDA may change it's estimates on South American production. (kirk.maltais@wsj.com)

0929 ET — Russel Metals may skirt the worst of the steel tariffs thanks to its larger U.S. exposure. TD Cowen's Michael Tupholme says the 25% tariffs on U.S. steel/aluminum imports from all countries will be a challenge for the metals space, but Russel Metals may get off easier than others, similar to the trends saw in the 2018 tariffs on the sector. "We see the news as positive for steel-related equities with U.S. market exposure, including Russel, which generates 40% of its revenue in the U.S.," the analyst notes. (adriano.marchese@wsj.com)

0928 ET - The dollar weakens against most major currencies while dollar indexes rise, as markets react to a new set of tariffs announced by President Trump over the weekend. Both the ICE's DXY gauge and the broader WSJ Dollar Index rise around 0.1%, while the greenback weakens 0.2% against the euro and strengthens 0.3% versus the yen. The 25% levy on all steel and aluminum imports to the U.S. looks less likely to be avoided the way previous country-targeting tariffs were. Goldman Sachs' Stuart Jenkins writes that "we think they would have a more durable Dollar impact that the market is not yet fully pricing." (paulo.trevisani@wsj.com; @ptrevisani)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250210008061:0/)
