---
title: "Forget CPI. This market indicator says inflation may stay above 2% for years."
date: "2025-02-12 04:40:00"
summary: "By Vivien Lou Chen'There's still a little bit of sticker shock left over from the 2021-22 inflation spike,' says Mark Heppenstall, chief investment officer of Penn Mutual Asset ManagementInvestors and traders were bracing for Wednesday's consumer-price index report for January to mostly reflect either little change from or a slight..."
categories:
  - "MarketWatch"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "MarketWatch"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Vivien Lou Chen

'There's still a little bit of sticker shock left over from the 2021-22 inflation spike,' says Mark Heppenstall, chief investment officer of Penn Mutual Asset Management

Investors and traders were bracing for Wednesday's consumer-price index report for January to mostly reflect either little change from or a slight improvement over the final month of 2024. Yet one part of the financial market continued to flash worrisome signs about future price gains.

That is what's known as the five-year breakeven inflation rate - a measure of average expected inflation over the medium term. This rate was at 2.6% on Tuesday, and it has largely remained above its 50- and 200-day moving averages since late October, according to FactSet data. The message it is currently sending is that inflation could remain above the Federal Reserve's 2% target for years.

"While I don't think we'll see inflation go back to levels we witnessed in 2021-23, it is not out of the question that inflation could stay well above the Fed's 2% target for the months or even years to come," said Tim Magnusson, chief investment officer and founding partner at Garda Capital Partners in Wayzata, Minn. He cited recent data on consumer expectations from the University of Michigan that appear to back up this view. "This would obviously keep the Fed on hold if it turns out to be the case."

Even a small upside surprise in Wednesday's data has the potential to rattle financial markets and cause Federal Reserve officials to take notice. That's because inflation traders expect January's annual headline inflation rate to come in at 2.9%, so any upside surprise would push this reading to 3% or even higher for the first time since June 2024.

Inflation traders generally foresee a path of stubbornly persistent inflation that should keep the annual headline CPI rate around 2.9% from June through November. Uncertainty about which of President Donald Trump's proposals will take effect is only raising the stakes.

Meanwhile, economists polled by the Wall Street Journal expect January's annual headline CPI inflation rate and the narrower year-over-year core rate to land at 2.8% and 3.1%, respectively, down slightly from 2.9% and 3.2% in December. The monthly core reading is expected to remain at 0.3%.

Remarks made by Federal Reserve Chair Jerome Powell during his first day of semiannual testimony before Congress didn't appear to move the needle much on market participants' thinking about inflation. On Tuesday, Powell said that there's no rush to adjust interest rates and that it remains to be seen which of Trump's tariff proposals will end up actually being implemented.

Treasury yields continued to rise, with the 10-year rate BX:TMUBMUSD10Y back above 4.5% ahead of Wednesday's CPI report. Meanwhile, stocks DJIA SPX COMP were mixed.

The 10-year yield could be settling into a new range around 4.5%, and investors may want to fade any significant market-moving reactions in the bond market to Wednesday's data, according to Mark Heppenstall, chief investment officer at Pennsylvania-based Penn Mutual Asset Management.

"There's just going to be back and forth on everything coming out of the administration, with some days being favorable and some days being negative," Heppenstall said via phone. "I don't expect yields to fall dramatically," he said, adding that "a risk-off environment is just going to limit how high yields can go."

He also referred to an "embedded inflationary mindset" that appears to be taking hold. "To some degree, people are still struggling with how quickly inflation went to 9% in 2022," he said. With a box of Cheerios selling for $9 in some parts of the country, "there's still a little bit of sticker shock left over from 2021-22 inflation spike, and that is the biggest frustration."

-Vivien Lou Chen

This content was created by MarketWatch, which is operated by Dow Jones & Co. MarketWatch is published independently from Dow Jones Newswires and The Wall Street Journal.

[MarketWatch](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_SN20250211012086:0/)
