---
title: "These Stocks Are Moving the Most Today: Nucor, U.S. Steel, Meta, Tesla, BP, McDonald's, and More — Barrons.com"
date: "2025-02-10 18:27:00"
summary: "By Joe WoelfelStock futures were rising Monday, kicking off a week filled with threatened tariffs from President Donald Trump and key readings on U.S. inflation.These stocks were poised to make moves Monday:Nucor rose 8.3%, United States Steel rose 7.2%, and Steel Dynamics was up 7.2% after Trump said he would..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Joe Woelfel

Stock futures were rising Monday, kicking off a week filled with threatened tariffs from President Donald Trump and key readings on U.S. inflation.

These stocks were poised to make moves Monday:

Nucor rose 8.3%, United States Steel rose 7.2%, and Steel Dynamics was up 7.2% after Trump said he would impose 25% levies on all steel and aluminum imports into the U.S. The president told reporters that he would announce the new tariffs on Monday. Meanwhile, Trump said Friday he supported an emerging agreement to allow Japan's Nippon Steel to invest in U.S. Steel after the Biden administration blocked Nippon's $14 billion acquisition of the American steel maker last month.

Meta Platforms was up 0.6% in premarket trading. It entered Monday riding a 15-day winning streak after rising 0.4% to $714.52 on Friday. It's the longest streak for the parent of Facebook and Instagram. Shares have received a boost from Meta's recent fourth-quarter earnings report, in which revenue rose 21% to a record $48.4 billion and net income was $20.8 billion.

Tesla fell 1.3% in premarket trading. Shares of the electric-vehicle company fell 10% last week, including a 3.4% decline on Friday after data from China revealed Tesla sales in the country during January fell 11.5% from a year earlier.

U.S.-listed shares of BP jumped 6.2% after The Wall Street Journal reported Elliott Investment Management has built a stake in the British oil giant and plans to push for changes to improve the company's performance. The Journal report cited people familiar with the investment. The size of Elliott's BP stake couldn't be learned, the Journal said.

Earnings reports are expected Monday from McDonald's, Vertex Pharmaceuticals, Rockwell Automation, ON Semiconductor, Astera Labs, and Tempus AI.

McDonald's rose 0.2% in premarket trading ahead of fourth-quarter earnings from the fast-food company. Analysts expect the company to post earnings of $2.85 a share on revenue of $6.45 billion.

Reports are expected later in the week from Coca-Cola, Humana, Shopify, DuPont, Gilead Sciences, Zillow, DoorDash, Carrier Global, Super Micro Computer, Cisco Systems, AppLovin, CVS Health, Robinhood Markets, Vertiv Holdings, Reddit, Kraft Heinz, Applied Materials, Deere, Palo Alto Networks, Airbnb, Coinbase Global, GE HealthCare Technologies, Lyft, and Moderna.

Write to Joe Woelfel at joseph.woelfel@barrons.com

This content was created by Barron's, which is operated by Dow Jones & Co. Barron's is published independently from Dow Jones Newswires and The Wall Street Journal.

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250210002469:0/)
