---
title: "The Mag 7 Rules No More. Why It's Time to Sell Some Stock. — Barrons.com"
date: "2025-02-11 03:18:00"
summary: "By Teresa RivasIt's been a Magnficient Seven world the past few years. But those Big Tech stocks are trailing the market now — and one firm is arguing that it's time to sell some of them.The Roundhill Magnificent Seven ETF — it tracks that exclusive M7 club of Google parent..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Teresa Rivas

It's been a Magnficient Seven world the past few years. But those Big Tech stocks are trailing the market now — and one firm is arguing that it's time to sell some of them.

The Roundhill Magnificent Seven ETF — it tracks that exclusive M7 club of Google parent Alphabet, Amazon.com, Apple, Facebook parent Meta Platforms, Microsoft, Nvidia, and Tesla — is up just over 1% since Jan. 1. By contrast, the S&P 500 has gained 2.6% and the Nasdaq Composite is more than 3% higher.

That's an about-face from the M7's days of double-digit increases — an era that Trivariate Research believes is winding down.

Trivariate's founder, Adam Parker talks about the shift in his thinking. Previously, he writes, it was "prudent for long-only US equity managers to be at least market-weight the M7.

"Today, our views have evolved to the point where we are changing our mind and believe lowering exposure is prudent."

Parker was on board with the group for many of the same reasons as other market participants. The stocks delivered performance that couldn't be easily replicated, carried relatively little company-specific risk, and were so widely covered — and nearly universally loved — that it was rare for any investor to know something about the stock that wasn't already baked into the share price.

Certainly, it has been a lonely and difficult road for contrarian bulls.

But times do change. Consider how much riskier the M7 is today. The group accounts for nearly a third of the market capitalization of the S&P 500. The current exposure of the M7, though, shoots up to nearly 45% on a beta-adjusted basis, which measures a stock's expected volatility.

"This means that a portfolio manager who owns in market-weight all the Magnificent 7 stocks has nearly half their fund's beta-adjusted exposure in these stocks!" Parker notes. "This remains near highs of the last 25 years."

Capital intensity is another worry for Parker.

Big Tech companies have recommitted to huge R&D budgets as they vie for the lead in the artificial intelligence race, but the M7's spending-to-sales ratio has been going up for years.

By Parker's math, based on the group's latest capex forecasts and consensus estimates, the spending-to-sales ratio will hit a record high — 14.5% by year's end.

Admittedly, shareholders have been more patient with some companies than others — see the opposite reactions to Alphabet's and Meta's projections — but sentiment can turn quickly, particularly in the face of upheavals like the DeepSeek panic that left questions about the costs of AI development.

"There is no question either way that the high capital spending will continue to come under increasing scrutiny until investors can better understand the return on today's massive investments," Parker writes.

Nor is there much room for error, given the M7's current valuations, which remain at a premium.

"Normally, this kind of valuation, beta, and capital spending would be accompanied by a highly certain future revenue growth and the expectation of sustained stability of that growth," Parker concludes. "However, today's outlook seems increasingly tenuous given the disruptive nature of AI and the rapidly changing landscape of software development."

That doesn't mean that Parker is bearish on the group or thinks that investors should liquidate their positions. But he does think that it makes sense to trim until their beta-adjusted exposure is more in-line with their market cap weighting, making portfolios less beholden to the group's volatility.

Still, even that relatively mild rebalancing looks out of sync with most of Wall Street.

Aside from Tesla, where ratings are fairly evenly split, most analysts are bullish on athe remaining M7 stocks. And excluding Apple, where 59% rate it Buy or the equivalent, 80% or more of analysts are bullish on the remaining five, according to FactSet. Its data show zero bearish ratings on Alphabet, Amazon, Microsoft, and Nvidia.

Barron's has warned that investors should be braced for a more volatile 2025 in general, and that while the DeepSeek news rattled the tech landscape, it isn't a silver bullet and will ultimately help the sector.

Nonetheless, given how whipsawed markets have been, some investors might welcome a little calm by trimming their holdings in some pricey tech.

The good thing about volatility is there's always another chance to buy the dip.

Write to Teresa Rivas at teresa.rivas@barrons.com

This content was created by Barron's, which is operated by Dow Jones & Co. Barron's is published independently from Dow Jones Newswires and The Wall Street Journal.

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250210008725:0/)
