---
title: "Federal Employee Resignation Offer Faces Key Legal Test Today — Barrons.com"
date: "2025-02-11 03:58:00"
summary: "By Anita HamiltonA federal judge will decide today whether to extend the pause on the Trump administration's deferred-resignation program for federal workers.Last week, Massachusetts district court Judge George O'Toole Jr. paused the initial Feb. 6 deadline that the Office of Personnel Management gave to workers after labor unions representing those..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Anita Hamilton

A federal judge will decide today whether to extend the pause on the Trump administration's deferred-resignation program for federal workers.

Last week, Massachusetts district court Judge George O'Toole Jr. paused the initial Feb. 6 deadline that the Office of Personnel Management gave to workers after labor unions representing those employees filed suit. Today he will decide on issuing a temporary restraining order.

Some 65,000 federal employees, less than 3% of the 2.4 million federal civilian workforce, have accepted the deal so far. It's a key part of the government's efficiency drive, led by Tesla CEO Elon Musk and his Department of Government Efficiency (DOGE).

According to a cost-cutting tracker posted by DOGE, the resignations will save the government some $30 billion or more than 80% of the total "taxpayer dollars" saved by the initiative so far.

The initial deal, laid out in a memo titled " Fork in the Road," offered workers full pay and benefits through Sept. 30 if they submitted their resignations by Feb. 6. Labor unions sued on the basis that the offer was arbitrary, capricious and illegal.

The unions contend that the government cannot guarantee the offer, in part because the federal government is only funded through March 14. Partisan divides in Congress make it unclear if a spending bill will pass to fund the government beyond then even though Republicans have slim majorities in both houses.

In making his initial ruling to pause the deadline last Thursday, Judge O'Toole noted that he wasn't ruling on the merits of the labor unions' claims and had not read a last-minute brief filed by the Office of Personnel Management. That brief claims that the unions failed to establish any harm "irreparable or otherwise" for allowing the deadline to expire or an overall likelihood of success.

The agency argues instead that extending the deadline would exacerbate harms to workers, among other claims. "Extending the deadline for the acceptance of deferred resignation on its very last day will markedly disrupt the expectations of the federal workforce, inject tremendous uncertainty into a program that scores of federal employees have already availed themselves of, and hinder the Administration's efforts to reform the federal workforce," the OPM brief adds.

At this afternoon's 2 p.m. hearing, lawyers for the labor unions, including the 800,000-member American Federation of Government Employees, and the Trump administration will present their oral arguments. If O'Toole grants the temporary restraining order, the pause will be extended until a later date determined by the judge. If he doesn't grant it, the new deadline of midnight tonight will remain in effect, unless the government chooses to extend it.

Write to Anita Hamilton at anita.hamilton@barrons.com

This content was created by Barron's, which is operated by Dow Jones & Co. Barron's is published independently from Dow Jones Newswires and The Wall Street Journal.

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250210008445:0/)
