---
title: "Global Forex and Fixed Income Roundup: Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-11 08:33:00"
summary: "The latest Market Talks covering FX and Fixed Income. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.1932 ET - The yen strengthens against other G-10 and Asian currencies in the early morning session amid mild risk-off sentiment likely spurred by losses across U.S. equity-index futures. On Monday, President Trump..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The latest Market Talks covering FX and Fixed Income. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.

1932 ET - The yen strengthens against other G-10 and Asian currencies in the early morning session amid mild risk-off sentiment likely spurred by losses across U.S. equity-index futures. On Monday, President Trump announced global 25% tariffs on imports of steel and aluminum to the U.S. He also warned that the tariff rate "may go higher," Commerzbank Research analysts say in a research report. U.S. stock futures are down a bit following Trump's announcement, the analysts note. USD/JPY edges 0.1% lower to 151.86; AUD/JPY is down 0.2% at 95.26; EUR/JPY is down 0.1% at 156.48. (ronnie.harui@wsj.com)

1929 ET - South Korea's benchmark Kospi rises 0.3% to 2528.40 in early trade as defense and shipbuilding stocks advance. Retail and institutional investors are net buyers. Traders largely shrug off Trump's new 25% tariffs on steel and aluminum, which have been priced in preemptively since several months ago, according to Kiwoom Securities. Hyundai Steel is flat. Corporate earnings are back in focus. Howitzer and aircraft-engine maker Hanwha Aerospace climbs 13% after strong 4Q results. Its sibling shipbuilder Hanwha Ocean rises 4.0%. USD/KRW is 0.1% higher at 1,453.25 in Seoul onshore trading. South Korea's 10-year government bond yield is down 0.6 bp at 2.830%. (kwanwoo.jun@wsj.com)

1909 ET - The Australian dollar edges lower against its U.S. counterpart on fears of more global tariffs. The 'peak tariff' situation doesn't appear to have been reached yet, Commonwealth Bank of Australia's Carol Kong says in a research report. "In particular, the U.S. and China's tariffs against each other can increase further before any trade deal can be struck," the economist and currency strategist says. Owing to its sensitivity to risk sentiment and Australia's high exposure to Chinese domestic demand, AUD/USD remains vulnerable to the downside, Kong adds. AUD/USD is 0.1% lower at 0.6269. (ronnie.harui@wsj.com)

1649 ET - A 25% U.S. tariff on Canadian aluminum "will be so destructive for industrial aluminum value chain in the U.S. that it cannot last," says Jean Simard, CEO of the Aluminium Association of Canada. Simard tells WSJ he's hoping the Trump administration will carve out Canadian-made aluminum from the president's decision to impose a 25% tariff on imported steel and aluminum. Simard says small- and mid-sized U.S. manufacturers will be stuck paying vastly more for the metal which is used to build cars, aerospace products, and consumer appliances. "At some point in time, some products will be priced out of the market and replaced by foreign imports," Simard predicts. Canada supplies about 60% of the aluminum the U.S. imports. (paul.vieira@wsj.com; @paulvieira)

1609 ET - Mexico's industrial production likely closed out 2024 on a weak note, with output seen falling from the previous month and from a year-earlier. Industrial production is seen down 1.1% from December 2023, and off 0.9% seasonally adjusted from November, according to analysts surveyed by The Wall Street Journal. In its preliminary 4Q GDP estimate on Jan. 30, statistics institute Inegi said industrial production edged up 0.3% in all of 2024, with a 1.7% year-on-year decline in the fourth quarter. Inegi is scheduled to report December industrial output on Tuesday. (anthony.harrup@wsj.com)

1545 ET - Treasury yields are mixed ahead of Chair Powell's Congress hearings and U.S. inflation data later this week. Powell is scheduled to speak to senators tomorrow and address the House on Wednesday. Markets are still uncertain about how tariffs and other Trump policies will impact inflation, an issue that could be raised during Powell's testimony. CPI is expected to change little on Wednesday and PPI is forecast to accelerate on Thursday, according to a Wall Street Journal survey with economists. The 10-year yield rises 0.009 percentage point to 4.492% and the two-year falls 0.012 p.p. to 4.265%. (paulo.trevisani@wsj.com; @ptrevisani)

1456 ET - Tariffs could impact consumer prices faster than they did in the past, WisdomTree's Sam Rines says. "If you had asked me 10 years ago how quickly the pass-through would happen, I would have said...18 to 24 months." But after passing on to consumers increased costs caused by tariffs from Trump's first term, the war in Ukraine and other recent shocks, companies should now be able to adjust prices in three to nine months, Rines says. They "have an excuse to raise prices, they've done it before...they'll do it again and they'll likely be successful simply because the consumer knows there's not really another option." (paulo.trevisani@wsj.com; @ptrevisani)

1440 ET - The Fed has gone from data-dependent to D.C.-dependent, WisdomTree's Kevin Flanagan says. After the central bank cut interest rates by a full percentage point last year, it can now wait until President Trump policies materialize and their impact is felt on inflation, Flanagan says. The Fed's goal is to keep rates at a neutral point, where they put a lid on inflation without destroying jobs. "I think that is going to be a recurring theme that they would like to get to neutral but there's no urgency to get there," Flanagan says. He says the topic may be brought up during Chair Powell's hearings in Congress tomorrow and Wednesday. (paulo.trevisani@wsj.com; @ptrevisani)

1256 ET - Canada is the biggest foreign supplier of steel and aluminum to the US market. However, the fallout from 25% US tariffs on those two commodities, as President Trump has promised, would be minimal for the Canadian economy, Capital Economics says. "The impact on GDP should be limited," the firm says, noting Canadian steel and aluminum exports to US account for just 1% of GDP. CapEcon says it doesn't believe Ottawa will do much in terms of retaliation, although noting that public-opinion polls show widespread support for taking a tough approach against the Trump administration. Given that US exports accounts for one-fifth of Canada GDP, "any serious [retaliation] measures would be Canada cutting off its nose to spite its face." (Paul.Vieira@wsj.com, @paulvieira)

1237 ET - Treasury Secretary Scott Bessent spoke with Canadian Finance Minister Dominic LeBlanc, according to a summary of the call from the Treasury Department. The readout indicates Bessent stressed the importance of the U.S. and Canada "to combat security threats and engage on economic issues." The reference to security threats likely refers to border security, and stemming the flow of migrants and illegal drugs, like fentanyl, into the U.S. Trump has threatened a 25% tariff on all nonenergy imports from Canada unless Ottawa takes steps to fortify border security and deterring fentanyl trafficking. Spokesmen for LeBlanc did not immediately respond about the phone call with Bessent. (paul.vieira@wsj.com; @paulvieira)

1112 ET - Sterling's prospects remain relatively good as the Bank of England is likely to maintain a cautious approach to cutting interest rates, Ebury economist Enrique Diaz-Alvarez says in a note. The BOE cut rates by 25 basis points Thursday with two officials preferring a 50 basis-point reduction. It signalled concerns about the economic outlook as it slashed its 2025 growth forecast. However, sticky inflation and elevated wage growth could limit the scope of future cuts, Diaz-Alvarez says. "We think that markets may be overstating the degree to which the BOE will be able to cut rates this year as the Monetary Policy Committee itself stressed that gradual cuts remain the way forward." (renae.dyer@wsj.com)

1100 ET - Consumers deliver a split take on the labor market in the New York Fed's latest survey. Earnings growth expectations over the next year increase slightly to 3%--but this number has held relatively steady for the past 12 months in the survey. Expectations that unemployment will rise over the next year decline by 0.6 percentage points to 34%, showing optimism. On the other hand, the mean perceived probability of losing one's job over the next year increases by 2.3 percentage points, to 14.2%, a more downbeat result. But finally, there was also an increase in the perceived probability of finding a new job in the next three months if one lost one's current job. That figure rises by 1.3 percentage points to 51.5%.(matt.grossman@wsj.com, @mattgrossman)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250210012338:0/)
