---
title: "News Highlights: Top Company News of the Day - Thursday at 7 AM ET"
date: "2025-02-13 20:15:00"
summary: "Deere Beats Earnings Estimates but the Stock Is Dropping. Here's Why.Deere maintains its financial guidance, saying it expects large-equipment sales to decline by 30% in the U.S. in fiscal 2025.Honda, Nissan End Merger Talks, Leaving Nissan to Seek Other PartnersThe chief executives of the two automakers, at separate news conferences,..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

**Deere Beats Earnings Estimates but the Stock Is Dropping. Here's Why.**

Deere maintains its financial guidance, saying it expects large-equipment sales to decline by 30% in the U.S. in fiscal 2025.

**Honda, Nissan End Merger Talks, Leaving Nissan to Seek Other Partners**

The chief executives of the two automakers, at separate news conferences, traded jabs about Honda's bid to change the terms of the deal.

**Barclays Guides For Growth After Quarterly Beat**

The lender expects an increase in profitability this year after group revenue rose 24%, boosted by its investment bank and its domestic retail division.

**Musk Says He Will Pull Bid if OpenAI Remains a Nonprofit**

The unsolicited offer has complicated OpenAI CEO Sam Altman's plans for the ChatGPT maker's future.

**Unilever Picks Amsterdam Over London For Ice-Cream Unit's Primary Listing**

The news ends months of speculation over how the giant would move ahead with its plan to separate the business.

**Nestle Posts Weakest Sales Growth in More Than Two Decades**

A pullback from budget-conscious shoppers is hurting Nestle, but the company said there are early signs of progress in reviving sales growth.

**Siemens Net Profit Beats Market Views on Continued Data Center Demand**

The industrial conglomerate has been among the early winners in a data-center boom driven by AI.

**Sony Group Raises Earnings Guidance**

The Japanese entertainment and electronics company raised its annual earnings projections after its third-quarter net profit rose on strength in its game and music businesses.

**Baidu Plans to Make Its AI Chatbot Free**

The Beijing-based company stated that it would offer its Ernie AI chatbot at no cost to both desktop and mobile users.

**Coinbase Earnings to Show What's Next for Crypto After Its Trump Bump**

The new president has promised to pump up the industry in the U.S. with lighter regulation.

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250213007771:0-news-highlights-top-company-news-of-the-day-thursday-at-7-am-et/)
