---
title: "Entry-Level Homes in Miami Are Going Extinct — WSJ"
date: "2025-02-13 10:00:00"
summary: "By E.B. SolomontAs deep-pocketed buyers in the Miami area push luxury home prices to record highs, starter houses are disappearing from the market.Between 2019 and 2024, a five-year period that saw hedge-fund manager Ken Griffin hand Miami its first $100 million home purchase — followed by a slew of other..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By E.B. Solomont

As deep-pocketed buyers in the Miami area push luxury home prices to record highs, starter houses are disappearing from the market.

Between 2019 and 2024, a five-year period that saw hedge-fund manager Ken Griffin hand Miami its first $100 million home purchase — followed by a slew of other megadeals — the number of annual single-family home sales in Miami-Dade County below $500,000 dropped 79.6%, according to research firm Analytics Miami.

Where did all those entry-level homes go? One price tier up, dragged there by the upward trajectory of single-family home prices area-wide. For single-family homes between $500,000 and $1 million, inventory rose 43% and sales rose 140% between December 2019 and December 2024. For the month of December 2024, the median sale price for a single-family home was $675,000 — up 11% year-over-year and up 78% compared with December 2019, Analytics Miami found.

Meanwhile, the annual number of home sales above $1 million rose 147% compared with 2019.

While the pandemic's blistering pace of home-buying may have cooled, a steady stream of wealthy buyers who moved to South Florida in recent years has pushed single-family home prices in the Miami area to previously unseen levels — higher than even that during the peak of the pandemic boom in 2021.

Ana Bozovic, a Miami real-estate agent and founder of Analytics Miami, said lower-priced inventory is being squeezed out of the market by sellers unwilling or unable to move, and by buyers who continue to bid up prices. "The floor of this market keeps rising," she said. At the high end, there is a limited pool of single-family properties and high demand, a combination which has led to an explosive price rise.

Not even the threat of rising sea levels, predicted to hit the Miami coastline particularly hard in the coming decades, and skyrocketing property insurance costs have dampened Miami's allure for the rich, agents said.

In recent months, consumer brands entrepreneur Anand Khubani paid $100 million for three contiguous properties on Miami Beach's La Gorce Island. He later purchased a $40 million spec home on North Bay Road, about 1.5 miles from where soccer star David Beckham and his wife, fashion designer Victoria Beckham, spent $72.25 million for a newly built mansion — a deal that local agents said started a market frenzy.

"These price points didn't exist pre-Covid," Bozovic said. "The sheer appetite — it's a completely different reality."

Danny Hertzberg of the Jills Zeder Group at Coldwell Banker Realty said that a few years ago, everyone assumed that luxury-home prices peaked at the end of 2021. But they have moved "way beyond" those expectations. "The ultra high-end is stronger than it's ever been."

A new market

Since 2019, wealthy buyers have reshaped Miami's luxury market. According to Bozovic, the number of single-family home sales above $10 million was up 248.4% in 2024 compared with that of 2019.

In fact, in Miami-Dade County, the luxury threshold for single-family homes — meaning the top 5% of the market — reached $3.3 million in 2024, up from $1.4 million in 2019, according to the Miami Association of Realtors. The threshold for the top 1% of the market was $10 million in 2024 up from $3.5 million in 2019.

"Listen, the millionaires are being pushed out by the billionaires. If they want something they will pay up for it," said Chad Carroll of Compass.

Accountant Joshua Azran, who moved to Miami from Los Angeles during the pandemic, found almost nothing to buy for around $4 million to $5 million in Miami Beach during a recent house hunt. Most single-family homes in that price range needed significant work, which he and his wife, Naama Azran, weren't willing to do. He said they ended up looking farther north and found something in Boca Raton that checked all the boxes.

They are currently in contract to pay in the mid-$6 million range for a roughly 8,000-square-foot house in with four bedrooms, an office and theater. Something comparable would easily cost $10 million to $15 million in Miami Beach, Azran said.

Still, there are plenty of buyers willing to spend that amount, or more. Prior to 2021, Miami had just one sale above $50 million. That was in 2015, when Griffin paid $60 million for two condos at Faena House. Since 2021, there have been seven sales above $50 million, according to data from real-estate appraisal firm Miller Samuel. Amazon's Jeff Bezos has spent $234 million combined assembling a compound on Indian Creek, records show. In January, a waterfront estate in Bay Point traded for $85.2 million. A home on La Gorce Island sold for $62.5 million in 2024.

Agents said these are prices that simply didn't exist before Covid. "When someone pays a big premium...they do change the marketplace," said Dina Goldentayer of Douglas Elliman. "People do cling to that last comp."

In Bay Point, for example, a flurry of deals closed after the $85.2 million mansion went into contract over the summer. One was former Miami Heat player Goran Dragić's seven-bedroom waterfront home, which sold for $13.4 million in January.

On coveted North Bay Road, land is now commanding a premium. Last year, media mogul Barry Diller paid $45 million for a roughly 1.5-acre waterfront parcel. Recently, real-estate developer Todd Michael Glaser went into contract to pay $105 million for the roughly 2.34-acre property next door. The seller is fellow real-estate developer Sonny Kahn, who paid around $2.5 million in the early 1990s, and then renovated the existing 19,200-square-foot mansion.

Glaser plans to either flip or redevelop the property, which can accommodate a 50,000-square-foot residence, said Nelson Gonzalez of Berkshire Hathaway HomeServices EWM Realty, who is working with Glaser. He estimated a newly built house could fetch roughly $250 million. "It's a unicorn of a lot," Gonzalez said.

'Going extinct'

As luxury home prices skyrocket, Miami's inventory of lower-priced houses is rapidly shrinking.

Not only are longtime owners holding on to their homes, but housing economists and agents also said a chunk of the sub-$500,000 market is disappearing as values shoot up.

In December 2019, there were 3,518 single-family home listings under $500,000, a number that dropped to 641 in December 2024, Bozovic said. "The market below $500,000 is going extinct. It's kind of shocking," she said. There is little new product being added to the market at that price point, either, because of high land prices and construction costs, she said.

Some longtime owners are seizing the opportunity to cash out. Julianna Castro of Compass described one such deal, in which her client sold a 1,434-square-foot house in Miami's Belle Meade neighborhood for more than three times the $363,000 purchase price in 2016. Castro said the three-bedroom house went into contract shortly after hitting the market in October, and sold for just over $1.3 million in January.

In a more extreme example, Jason Sims of Serhant recently listed a teardown on North Bay Road that the owner purchased for $360,000 in the 1980s. About a month ago, it went into contract to be sold for $26 million, he said.

Compared with other cities nationwide, rising home prices in the Miami area have outpaced household income, said Alexander Hermann, a senior research associate at Harvard University's Joint Center for Housing Studies. Miami's median sale price is roughly eight times higher than its median household income — up from six before the pandemic and higher than the typical ratio of five in other parts of the country. "You're talking about a six-figure down payment at that ratio," he said. "Who can afford that? Certainly not more middle-income households."

At lower price points, agents said some would-be sellers aren't budging because they can't find something else to buy, or they are locked into low mortgage rates or can't afford to move.

Sims said one of his clients bought a waterfront home for $1.6 million about seven years ago, and has since made about $500,000 in upgrades. The lot is now worth about $7 million, Sims said, but the client has nowhere else to go. "He's just stacking equity in the house," Sims said.

Driving for demand

Miami real-estate agents said buyers continue to pay a premium for a simple reason: There is not enough inventory to meet demand. No longer driven by Covid, the influx of wealth is still happening as people move to Florida from high-tax states for jobs, weather and lifestyle. People who moved a few years ago are also upgrading — moving from a condo to a house or from a landlocked lot to a waterfront property.

"Developers are building but they can't build fast enough to fill the demand at that level," said Devin Kay of Douglas Elliman.

Agents said most of Miami's trophy homes were absorbed during the pandemic boom, when the first wave of wealthy buyers fled to Florida. "Anyone who needed to sell has sold. Anyone who was thinking about selling has sold," said Hertzberg, who said there are probably three times as many buyers willing to pay $50 million or more for a trophy home than there are $50 million-plus properties. "It's not even related to comps. It's what price is it going to take to convince this high-net-worth individual to sell?"

There are signs of climate gentrification, too. Deep-pocketed buyers are paying a premium for newer, more expensive homes that are being built at higher elevations or on lots that have been elevated with landfill and are less vulnerable to flood damage. "Older homes have effectively become teardowns," Hertzberg said.

Meanwhile, concessions and make-me-move prices have proliferated in the market.

Dora Puig of Luxe Living Realty said she has the only waterfront listing on La Gorce Island, a six-bedroom asking $38 million. The property is roughly 0.44 acres with 104 feet of water frontage. Puig estimated the land value alone is roughly $22 million, up from $8 million. The value is in its scarcity, she said. "My phone hasn't stopped ringing," she said.

Write to E.B. Solomont at eb.solomont@wsj.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250212016992:0/)
