---
title: "DOJ's Go-Light Approach to Corporate Crime Isn't an All-Clear for Big Banks — Heard on the Street — WSJ"
date: "2025-02-12 02:59:00"
summary: "By Jonathan WeilThere may be fewer prosecutions of U.S. companies for overseas bribery and money laundering while U.S. Attorney General Pam Bondi is leading the Justice Department. That doesn't mean everyday corporate compliance costs should be coming down anytime soon, especially at big banks.Bondi last week issued a department-wide memo..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Jonathan Weil

There may be fewer prosecutions of U.S. companies for overseas bribery and money laundering while U.S. Attorney General Pam Bondi is leading the Justice Department. That doesn't mean everyday corporate compliance costs should be coming down anytime soon, especially at big banks.

Bondi last week issued a department-wide memo instructing prosecutors to concentrate their resources on targeting illegal-drug cartels and other transnational criminal organizations. One part of her directive singled out the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act.

When it comes to bribery of overseas officials, she said the FCPA unit of the Justice Department's criminal division should prioritize investigations with connections to cartels and other cross-border crime syndicates and shift away from cases lacking such connections. She set similar priorities for prosecutors in the criminal division's money-laundering section.

The directive drew gasps from critics who said it shows the Justice Department going light on white-collar crime. There are others, of course, who would welcome a go-light approach.

Executives at many large banks have complained for years about soaring compliance costs. But there's a difference between shifting priorities and changing the law. Her memo didn't change any statutes. (Only Congress can do that.)

For anyone who believes this will lead to immediate slashing in compliance budgets and operating expenses, consider that the statute of limitations for FCPA violations is five years and can be extended to as much as eight years in some instances, as attorneys at law firm Akin Gump Strauss Hauer & Feld noted yesterday. Their advice: Companies should keep "well-designed and adequately resourced" compliance programs in place.

Nobody knows who the president will be four years from now, or how long Bondi will be attorney general. Someone who commits a crime today that goes unprosecuted in the current administration might be considered a priority for enforcement during the next administration. Moreover, Bondi's memo covered criminal cases, not civil litigation by the Justice Department or other agencies.

The armies of compliance employees populating large financial-services companies haven't been rendered obsolete just yet.

This analysis comes from the Journal's Heard on the Street team. Subscribe to their free daily afternoon newsletter here.

This item is part of a Wall Street Journal live coverage event. The full stream can be found by searching P/WSJL (WSJ Live Coverage).

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250211008778:0/)
