---
title: "Global Commodities Roundup: Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-14 01:15:00"
summary: "The latest Market Talks covering Commodities. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.1122 ET - U.S. natural gas in underground storage fell by 100 billion cubic feet last week to 2,297 Bcf in a fifth consecutive triple-digit withdrawal, leaving inventories 67 Bcf or 2.8% below the five-year average,..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The latest Market Talks covering Commodities. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.

1122 ET - U.S. natural gas in underground storage fell by 100 billion cubic feet last week to 2,297 Bcf in a fifth consecutive triple-digit withdrawal, leaving inventories 67 Bcf or 2.8% below the five-year average, the EIA reports. Analysts in a Wall Street Journal survey had predicted a storage decline of 96 Bcf. The drawdown was smaller than the 144 Bcf five-year average for the week given a brief respite in the cold weather. "After some mild revisions in late January, the outlook for February has turned colder again over the past week," analysts at Morgan Stanley say in a note.Still, the bank lifted its end-of-March estimate for storage from 1,550 Bcf to 1,670 Bcf, citing slightly higher production. Nymex natural gas is up 5.5% at $3.761/mmBtu. (anthony.harrup@wsj.com)

1036 ET - The current La Niña climate system is expected to transition back into neutral in the coming months, says the National Weather Service's Climate Prediction Center in a note. The agency says that it assesses a 66% for La Niña to transition in March through May. If the transition doesn't happen, then it's a weak La Niña system expected to continue into the spring. "A weak La Niña is less likely to result in conventional winter/spring impacts, though predictable signals can still influence the forecast guidance," says the Climate Prediction Center. In the Midwest, planting season for row crops typically begins in April, lasting into mid-June. A La Niña system typically brings colder temperatures and more precipitation to the Midwest during the early spring. (kirk.maltais@wsj.com)

1032 ET - Lean hog futures on the CME are 0.4% lower in early trading, with downward momentum coming after the government reported weaker export sales of U.S. pork. The USDA says that through the week ended February 6, pork sales totaled 24,900 metric tons. That's less than half of what was reported by the USDA last week, with sales to Mexico being only 5,000 tons. The White House says President Trump plans to unveil reciprocal tariffs for all trading partners later today. Live cattle is flat in early trade. (kirk.maltais@wsj.com)

1017 ET - Keyera logged a strong 4Q, with the performance of its liquids infrastructure segment likely to have been the biggest positive surprise for investors, Raymond James' Michael Barth says. Adjusted Ebitda came in at C$313 million, 11% ahead of the analyst's forecast and 8% above the consensus projection. Barth expects the market to react positively, despite distributable cash flow being in line with expectations and no significant incremental news on growth. Raymond James has an outperform call on the shares, which are now up 2.7% at C$42.96.(robb.stewart@wsj.com)

0927 ET - Consumer traffic to fast-food restaurants is expected to remain challenged this year, with orders at burger players flat to down 1%. Wendy's says it expects its 1Q sales to be the low point of the year, and its business to build through the rest of 2025. The chain says it will focus on its value offerings, which executives say are of a higher quality than competitors' options. Wendy's 4Q adjusted earnings per share and sales beat expectations, with promotions such as its Krabby Patty meal boosting orders. (heather.haddon@wsj.com; @heatherhaddon)

0917 ET - Brazilian crop agency Conab increases its outlook for Brazil's 2025 crop production--raising its total grain outlook to 325.7 million metric tons, up from 322.3 million tons estimated in January. Conab raises its outlook for Brazilian corn to 122 million tons, up from 119.6 million tons last month. It also slightly cuts its outlook for soybeans, to 166 million tons from 166.3 million tons. Grain futures are lower premarket, with corn under pressure amid an improved outlook for South American crops. "The conditions are positive for Brazilian corn planting and the weather in Argentina has stabilized that crop for now," says Tomm Pfitzenmaier of Summit Commodity Brokerage in a note. Corn is down 0.5%, soybeans off 0.2%, and wheat up 0.7%. (kirk.maltais@wsj.com)

0858 ET - U.S. natural gas futures add to gains on strong heating demand and LNG feedgas flows, with production down from last week. The Nymex front month is up 4.4% at $3.722/mmBtu, its highest level since the week of January 24 when a blast of Arctic weather led to the fourth-largest storage withdrawal on record. Today's EIA report is expected to show a below-average draw on inventories reflecting last week's respite in the weather, but a return to larger withdrawals is seen for following weeks. (anthony.harrup@wsj.com)

0824 ET - Oil futures add to the previous session's losses on the possibility of Russia-Ukraine peace talks promoted by President Trump and expectations Trump will outline plans today for reciprocal trade tariffs on countries that impose duties on U.S. goods. Spartan Capital's Peter Cardillo sees "demand factors stemming from these tariffs" contributing to weaker crude, "however, we believe the very low end of the $70 level will likely hold." WTI is off 1.1% at $70.59 a barrel. Brent crude is 1.1% lower at $74.33 a barrel. (anthony.harrup@wsj.com)

0737 ET - Base metal prices fall, with LME three-month copper down 0.2% at $9,451 a metric ton and LME three-month aluminum down 0.6% at $2,611 a ton. President Trump's 25% tariffs on steel and aluminum imports have caused volatility including in the U.S. to LME copper premium, though this is likely to be excessive, Macquarie's Marcus Garvey says in a note. The tariffs operate through the re-imposition and extension of 2018's Section 232 tariffs, and implicitly the same mechanism can't be used to apply tariffs to other commodities at short notice as that would need a related Commerce Department investigation, Garvey writes. That said, prices of copper and other base metals remain vulnerable to either blanket tariffs, or country-specific tariffs that would hit a large proportion of U.S. imports, Garvey adds. (joseph.hoppe@wsj.com)

0724 ET - Gold futures rise close to all-time highs on safe-haven and central bank demand. Futures rise 0.7% to $2,948.40 a troy ounce, close to the record $2,968.50 a troy ounce set during Tuesday's session. The precious metal has had a strong rally in the year-to-date, surpassing the above-consensus expectations of MUFG, analysts say in a note. The yellow metal is now closing in on $3,000 an ounce, which the Japanese bank had estimated would take until the third quarter of 2025. Gold's brisk start has much further to run, MUFG analysts say. Demand reflects both market fears around elevated geopolitical and economic uncertainties, driving safe-haven demand, and emerging market central bank demand, catalyzed by sanctions worries and risks of trade tariffs, MUFG says. (joseph.hoppe@wsj.com)

0624 ET - Nestle reported a better-than-expected performance in 2024 but warned of pressures on its margins in 2025, AJ Bell investment director Russ Mould says in a note. The company is dealing with a sharp increase in cocoa and coffee prices, the key ingredients for its core products, he says. Raising product prices to pass on such cost increases could be dangerous, Mould adds. Hence, the guidance for lower margins in 2025 implies that Nestle is "going to stomach some of the pain itself", he adds. Shares are up 6.2% at 83.68 Swiss francs. (michael.susin@wsj.com)

0619 ET - Unilever guidance is especially weak, as subdued consumers and rising commodity prices are taking a toll, Chris Beckett, head of equity research at Quilter Cheviot, writes. Consumers simply aren't spending as they were in the aftermath of the pandemic, and an uncertain economic environment has caused consumers to pull back, with discretionary items the first to go, he says. Beckett says it was hoped that Unilever was embarking on a sustained turnaround, and although it might still be happening, it will take longer than hoped. "Unilever may be right in that the second half of 2025 will be better, but a lot can change between now and then, especially given the political and economic upheaval we are witnessing." Shares fall 7.4% to 44.01 pounds. (dominic.chopping@wsj.com)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250213012613:0/)
