---
title: "Summer Fed Cut Seen as Still Possible — Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-13 03:17:00"
summary: "1417 ET - The uptick on core inflation last month \"is less alarming than it first appears,\" and a Fed cut this summer remains possible, Pantheon's Sam Tombs writes. He says seasonal factors make it more complicated to extrapolate one month's data. He says the February data will give a..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

1417 ET - The uptick on core inflation last month "is less alarming than it first appears," and a Fed cut this summer remains possible, Pantheon's Sam Tombs writes. He says seasonal factors make it more complicated to extrapolate one month's data. He says the February data will give a better sense of how the underlying trend is evolving. Tombs expects the PCE gauge, to be released later this month, to edge down to 2.7% in January, from 2.8% in December. "If as we expect, the trend continues to slow over the coming months, we still think the FOMC will ease policy again in June." (paulo.trevisani@wsj.com)

1415 ET - Oil futures extend losses after President Trump says he had a long phone conversation with Russian President Putin and expressed optimism about bringing the Russia-Ukraine war to an end as the two "agreed to start negotiations immediately." Trump also spoke with Ukrainian President Zelensky. Trump made no mention of U.S. sanctions on Russian oil, although the EIA said this week it doesn't expect the sanctions to significantly affect its 2025 global production forecasts. WTI is off 2.6% at $71.40 a barrel and Brent is down 2.3% at $75.21. (anthony.harrup@wsj.com)

1413 ET - DoorDash is higher after 4Q revenue and orders beat Wall Street estimates, and UBS says the food delivery company should deliver incremental adjusted Ebitda dollars for 2025 to 2027 at least at the levels seen in 2024 of greater than $700M. Still, the analysts say in a research note that there is a lingering unanswered question around the timing of adjusted Ebitda flowthrough. "We continue to prefer Uber given clearer adjusted Ebitda targets through 2026, ongoing platform synergies, and potential for Waymo partnership expansion in 2025," the analysts add. UBS raises its target price to $204 from $200. DoorDash rises 2.8% to $198.52. (sabela.ojea@wsj.com; @sabelaojeaguix)

1345 ET - UBS analysts are optimistic that Walmart's 4Q results, expected next week, will live up to investors' high expectations. The analysts forecast a better-than-expected holiday season, as well as a current-year outlook largely in-line with Wall Street views, setting the retailer up for continued raises during the year, according to a research note. They also expect higher marketing spend this year, which "would be a prudent way to press its advantages and draw in more customers." The analysts say Walmart's stock can continue to climb, citing the company's relative consistency amid volatile retail trends, as well as current investment trends. Walmart is up 14% year-to-date and up 82% in the past 12 months.(connor.hart@wsj.com)

1337 ET - The Super Bowl seemed to be a good day for online sports betting companies, with Flutter Entertainment's Fanduel reporting a 19% increase in bets to 16.6 million, and BetMGM calling it "one of the best single game results in company history," BofA Securities analysts say in a research note. The ability to grow double-digits during the biggest event of the year could help ease concerns of slowing handle, or the amount of money wagered by bettors, the analysts say. DraftKings led active user share on Sunday at 23%, followed by FanDuel at 17%, while Bet365, PrizePicks and ESPN Bet each had 10% share, BofA says. Still, the analysts don't expect DraftKings to raise guidance, as it might face $100 million of annualized headwinds from higher taxes in Maryland and Ohio, together with launch costs in Missouri. (sabela.ojea@wsj.com; @sabelaojeaguix)

1325 ET - High mortgage rates, rising to 7.04% in January compared with mid-6% last year, are impacting buyers more than sellers, Zillow says. Home values, up 44% since pre-pandemic and 2.6% year-over- year, make affordability tough, with pending sales down 3.6%. Buyers face challenges, but many listings see price cuts. Sellers, less affected by rates, are listing more, with new listings up 12% year over year, driven by equity gains and life events like job changes or family growth. Western markets like Portland, Seattle, Denver, and San Francisco are seeing the fastest listing growth. Despite buyer struggles, 25% of homes sold in December exceeded asking price, up from 19% pre-pandemic, showing some sellers still benefit in this market. (chris.wack@wsj.com)

1319 ET - UBS says Lyft's worse-than-expected 4Q gross bookings and margin trajectory reinforces its below-consensus adjusted Ebitda forecasts for 2025 to 2027. The analysts also say in a research note that the upcoming loss of the Delta Air Lines partnership, that linked Delta SkyMiles and Lyft accounts, will likely be a headwind that makes their medium-term forecasts uncertain. Add to that the threat of robotaxis and the analysts say they have limited visibility into near-term trading multiple expansion. "We think Lyft's competing initiative will remain nascent through 2026," the analysts say. UBS cuts its target price to $15 from $16. Lyft falls 4% to $13.82. (sabela.ojea@wsj.com; @sabelaojeaguix)

1252 ET - Coca-Cola imports aluminium from Canada for its U.S. soda cans, though higher prices for the metal could scramble this operation, CEO James Quincey says on a call with analysts. The soda company wants to limit price hikes for consumers in order to preserve demand, which could lead to the company considering new bottling materials: "So for example, if aluminum cans become more expensive, we can put more emphasis on PET bottles," he says. This adaptability should ensure tariffs don't drag volumes lower in 2025. "I think we control enough variables that we can adapt and mitigate our way through what is happening, because it's a combination of hedging, which we use on the key materials," Quincey says. (connor.hart@wsj.com)

1251 ET - Home listings are selling for less than asking price and taking longer to sell, according to Redfin. In January, the typical U.S. home was selling for 1.8% below asking, the largest discount in nearly two years, and taking 56 days to go under contract, the longest in almost five years. About 56% of listings remain on the market for at least 60 days, similar to last year but down from 61% last month, the highest in five years. High home prices--up 4% year over year--and elevated mortgage rates have pushed buyer payments near record highs, slowing the market. Political and economic uncertainty are also deterring buyers. But this slow market gives buyers more room to negotiate on price and terms, offering some relief amid high costs and low inventory. (chris.wack@wsj.com)

1158 ET - Canada Prime Minister Justin Trudeau says he had a short encounter with Vice President JD Vance about the negative fallout from a 25% tariff on steel and aluminum from Ohio. Trudeau tells reporters he told Vance — for an AI conference in Paris that the two lawmakers attended — that about C$2.2 billion of Canadian-made steel and aluminum are used by manufacturers in Vance's home state. "He nodded and noted it," Trudeau says, noting it was a short exchange. Earlier in the day, Quebec Premier Francois Legault mused that perhaps Canada should slap an export tax on U.S.-bound aluminum should the Trump administration imposes a hefty tariff on the metal. Canadian officials play down talk of export taxes, saying they want to press U.S. officials for a carve out. (paul.vieira@wsj.com, @paulvieira)

1150 ET - Apple could be getting a much-needed sales boost in China. The tech company partnered with Alibaba to co-develop Chinese AI features that have been submitted to China's cyberspace regulator for approval, Bank of America analyst Wamsi Mohan says in a research note, citing a report from The Information. iPhone sales have been pressured in China, falling for six consecutive quarters. CEO Tim Cook noted last month that iPhone sales are stronger in regions where AI tools are available. "We believe Apple can regain share in the Chinese market if they are able to launch Apple Intelligence successfully to compete with Huawei/Xiaomi's currently available AI offerings," Mohan writes. Alibaba ADRs rise 4.7%, on track for a two-year high. Apple shares rise 1%. (connor.hart@wsj.com)

1138 ET - The pressure that a pricing war is having on Lyft's gross bookings is a symptom of the company's smaller marketplace compared to Uber Technologies, DA Davidson analysts say in a research note. While Lyft deserves credit for some product innovations such as the price lock, it is unclear whether any rideshare product innovations can yield long-term sustainable competitive advantages against a larger scaled competitor, the analysts add. Lyft shares drop 5%, while Uber shares rise 1.6%. (sabela.ojea@wsj.com; @sabelaojeaguix)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250212011419:0/)
