---
title: "Repeat & Correct: Orange Revenue Rises, Key Earnings Metric Returns to Growth in France"
date: "2025-02-13 16:19:00"
summary: "Orange has reported fourth-quarter revenue of 10.43 billion euros compared with 10.38 billion euros for the comparative period a year earlier. \"Orange Revenue Falls But Key Earnings Metric Returns to Growth in France,\" at 0709 GMT, misstated the comparative number in the second paragraph and direction of the move in..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Orange has reported fourth-quarter revenue of 10.43 billion euros compared with 10.38 billion euros for the comparative period a year earlier. "Orange Revenue Falls But Key Earnings Metric Returns to Growth in France," at 0709 GMT, misstated the comparative number in the second paragraph and direction of the move in the headline, lede and second paragraph. The correct version follows:

By Najat Kantouar

Orange reported a rise in revenue for the fourth quarter and return to growth in a key earnings metric in France for the year as a whole.

The French telecommunications company posted a rise in fourth-quarter revenue to 10.43 billion euros, equivalent to $10.83 billion, from 10.38 billion euros for the same period a year earlier. This slightly missed company-compiled consensus of 10.47 billion euros. However, for the full year, revenue rose 1.2% to 40.26 billion euros.

Africa and the Middle East revenue rose by 13% in the fourth quarter, boosted by continued rapid growth in retail services. However, revenue in Europe fell by 2.3%, dragged by a sharp decline in wholesale services and other revenues. In France, revenue fell 0.6% as equipment sales fell 5.4%.

Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization and after leases--the company's preferred metric--rose 3.2% to 3.25 billion euros. Meanwhile, for the full year, France returned to Ebitdaal growth.

Looking ahead, Orange expects Ebitdaal growth of around 3% in 2025. The group also anticipates organic cash flow from telecom activities of at least 3.6 billion euros compared with an earlier expectation of 3.5 billion euros.

Write to Najat Kantouar at najat.kantouar@wsj.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250213004057:0/)
