---
title: "News Highlights: Top Company News of the Day - Monday at 7 PM ET"
date: "2025-02-11 08:00:00"
summary: "Elon Musk-Led Group Makes $97.4 Billion Bid for Control of OpenAIThe unsolicited offer complicates Sam Altman's plans to convert OpenAI to a for-profit company.Hertz Prevails in Warrant-Holder's Share-Repurchase LawsuitDiscovery Capital Management argued the rental-car company's debt and equity deals amounted to a payment-triggering reorganization. A judge disagreed.American Express Stock Slips..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

**Elon Musk-Led Group Makes $97.4 Billion Bid for Control of OpenAI**

The unsolicited offer complicates Sam Altman's plans to convert OpenAI to a for-profit company.

**Hertz Prevails in Warrant-Holder's Share-Repurchase Lawsuit**

Discovery Capital Management argued the rental-car company's debt and equity deals amounted to a payment-triggering reorganization. A judge disagreed.

**American Express Stock Slips as CFO Says Wall Street Is Too Upbeat**

The company's chief financial officer said growth in the first quarter would be slower than the fourth.

**Mediobanca Lifts Shareholder Return Target**

The upgrade comes after Mediobanca CEO Alberto Nagel highlighted faster growth at the bank and as the country's banking sector is in the midst of an M&A spree.

**Super Bowl Ad Results: AI Can't Compete With Sentimental Stories**

Americana and famous faces won the game inside the game, with a solid showing for pharma brands looking to polish their reputations.

**Tesla Is Losing Ground Against Its Biggest Rival in China**

BYD makes advances in AI-powered driving software while Musk's wait for approval grows.

**TD Bank to Sell Investment in Charles Schwab**

Toronto-Dominion Bank will exit its investment in Charles Schwab, the Canadian bank's first big move under new CEO Raymond Chun to shore up its business following a costly money-laundering scandal.

**Billionaire Investor Tepper's Firm Loves China. Alibaba Is Its Biggest Bet.**

Appaloosa cut its stakes in both Meta Platforms and Amazon.com by about 20%.

**Super Micro Stock Rises. A Big Update Is Coming Tuesday.**

Shares are on their best run since October, with investors hopeful they'll finally get some clarity on the company's accounting issues.

**Spirit AeroSystems to Declare Going Concern Amid Boeing Takeover**

Spirit AeroSystems Holdings' management cited substantial doubt about its ability to continue due to cash flow and liquidity issues.

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250210012224:0/)
