---
title: "Hyliion Holdings Schedules Fourth-Quarter and Full-Year 2024 Financial Results Conference Call and Webcast for February 26, 2025"
date: "2025-02-11 05:45:00"
summary: "Hyliion Holdings Schedules Fourth-Quarter and Full-Year 2024 Financial Results Conference Call and Webcast for February 26, 2025AUSTIN, Texas--(BUSINESS WIRE)--February 10, 2025--Hyliion Holdings Corp. (NYSE American: HYLN), a developer of sustainable electricity-producing technology, today announced it will host a conference call and accompanying webcast at 10:00 a.m. CT / 11:00 a.m...."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Hyliion Holdings Schedules Fourth-Quarter and Full-Year 2024 Financial Results Conference Call and Webcast for February 26, 2025

AUSTIN, Texas--(BUSINESS WIRE)--February 10, 2025--

Hyliion Holdings Corp. (NYSE American: HYLN), a developer of sustainable electricity-producing technology, today announced it will host a conference call and accompanying webcast at 10:00 a.m. CT / 11:00 a.m. ET on Wednesday, February 26, 2025, to discuss its financial results, the company's business, and outlook. Hyliion plans to report its 2024 fourth-quarter and full-year financial results after the market close on Tuesday, February 25, 2025.

Hyliion's Fourth-Quarter and Full-Year 2024 Conference Call

Date: Wednesday, February 26, 2025

Time: 10:00 a.m. CT / 11:00 a.m. ET

Conference Call Online Registration for the Q&A:

https://registrations.events/direct/Q4I759819130

Access the Webcast:

https://events.q4inc.com/attendee/525465699

An archived webcast of the conference call will be accessible on the Investor Relations section of the Hyliion website.

About Hyliion

Hyliion is committed to creating innovative solutions that enable clean, flexible and affordable electricity production. The Company's primary focus is to provide distributed power generators that can operate on various fuel sources to future-proof against an ever-changing energy economy. Headquartered in Austin, Texas, and with research and development in Cincinnati, Ohio, Hyliion is initially targeting the commercial and waste management industries with a locally deployable generator that can offer prime power as well as energy arbitrage opportunities. Beyond stationary power, Hyliion will address mobile applications such as vehicles and marine. The Company aims to offer innovative, yet practical solutions that contribute positively to the environment in the energy economy. For further information, please visit www.hyliion.com.

View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20250210197264/en/

CONTACT: Hyliion Holdings Corp.

press@hyliion.com

Investor Relations

ir@hyliion.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250210011207:0/)
