---
title: "Powell Testimony, Inflation Data, McDonald's Earnings: What to Watch This Week — WSJ"
date: "2025-02-10 18:12:00"
summary: "By WSJ StaffFederal Reserve Chair Jerome Powell heads to Capitol Hill this week for two days of testimony, a couple of weeks after the Fed hit pause on interest rates. In between his appearances, the latest U.S. consumer-inflation report is due-always crucial data for the central bank.Meanwhile earnings season continues,..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By WSJ Staff

Federal Reserve Chair Jerome Powell heads to Capitol Hill this week for two days of testimony, a couple of weeks after the Fed hit pause on interest rates. In between his appearances, the latest U.S. consumer-inflation report is due-always crucial data for the central bank.

Meanwhile earnings season continues, with big consumer-goods, retail, healthcare and technology companies slated to report.

Here's what to look for over the next five days:

Monday, Feb. 10

* Earnings: McDonald's reports quarterly results before the bell. Vertex Pharmaceuticals is due to report earnings after the close.

Tuesday, Feb. 11

* Earnings: Carlyle, Coca-Cola, DoorDash, DuPont, Lyft, Marriott, S&P Global, Super Micro Computer
* Speakers: Fed Chair Powell testifies before the Senate Banking Committee at 10 a.m. ET, in his first Congressional appearance since President Trump's inauguration. Questions are likely to cover the new administration's tariff policies and the outlook for interest rates and inflation.

Wednesday, Feb. 12

* Earnings: Cisco Systems, CME Group, CVS, Kraft Heinz, Robinhood
* Data: The big number of the week arrives at 8:30 a.m. with the January reading of the consumer-price index. Surveyed economists expect the CPI to increase 2.8% from a year earlier, slightly lower than the 2.9% rate as of December.
* Speakers: Fed Chair Powell testifies in front of the House Financial Services Committee at 10 a.m.

Thursday, Feb. 13

* Earnings: Airbnb, Applied Materials, Coinbase, DraftKings, Deere, PG&E
* Data: January's producer-price index follows Wednesday's CPI reading at 8:30 a.m. Economists expect a monthly gain of 0.3% in the PPI, slightly ahead of the 0.2% print for December.

Friday, Feb. 14

* Earnings: Moderna
* Data: A flurry of economic indicators round out the week, including retail sales at 8:30 a.m. ET. Readings on industrial production, capacity utilization and business inventories follow.

This item is part of a Wall Street Journal live coverage event. The full stream can be found by searching P/WSJL (WSJ Live Coverage).

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250210002498:0/)
