---
title: "Energy & Utilities Roundup: Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-13 17:20:00"
summary: "The latest Market Talks covering Energy and Utilities. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires at 4:20 ET, 12:20 ET and 16:50 ET.0751 GMT - Oiltek International's 2025-2026 earnings are supported by its order book, CGS International's William Tng says in a research report, as the brokerage maintains its add rating..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The latest Market Talks covering Energy and Utilities. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires at 4:20 ET, 12:20 ET and 16:50 ET.

0751 GMT - Oiltek International's 2025-2026 earnings are supported by its order book, CGS International's William Tng says in a research report, as the brokerage maintains its add rating for the stock. Management said that it's optimistic on the outlook for the next two years, as the company's order book of MYR354.9 million as of Feb. 12 is expected to be completed over the next 18-24 months, the analyst notes. Management also continues to see order-win opportunities in its edible and non-edible oil refinery segment, given population growth and growing food demand, Tng notes. However, the brokerage trims the target price to S$1.43 from S$1.44, based on estimated peer-sector average 2026 price-to-earnings of 18.3x versus the previous forecast of 18.4x. Shares are 2.6% higher at S$1.18. (ronnie.harui@wsj.com)

2353 GMT - Origin Energy's shares gain 1.6% after its 1H result beat consensus expectations, shrugging off lower earnings from minority-owned business Octopus. Citi says Origin's A$1.02 billion net profit was 4% ahead of market hopes, while an interim dividend of A$0.30/share was also stronger. "We had a negative outlook into today's result after the cash tax and APLNG guidance came in soft at the quarter," says analyst James Byrne, referring to the Australia Pacific LNG facility. Citi removes its negative outlook, while retaining a buy call on the stock. It says Origin's pared earnings guidance for Octopus reflects heavier investment in technology rather than poor risk management, which had been a concern for some investors. (david.winning@wsj.com; @dwinningWSJ)

2332 GMT - The expansion of AGL Energy's battery portfolio has grabbed the attention of UBS, which thinks it bodes well for rival Origin Energy. Analyst Tom Allen expects batteries to drive consensus upgrades to EPS forecasts from FY 2026. This provides "a strong read-through for Origin Energy, which we believe has the strongest battery portfolio in development across the market," UBS says. Still, the battery rollout means it must invest more. AGL expects to take a final investment decision on 1.4 gigawatts of new battery capacity over the next 18 months. "Despite forecasting materially higher EPS than consensus from FY 2027 we remain neutral rated as we see the potential for higher shareholder returns moderated by the scale of AGL's long-term reinvestment challenge," UBS says. (david.winning@wsj.com; @dwinningWSJ)

1905 GMT - Oil futures backed off from a three-session rally as U.S. crude inventories posted another large weekly build, President Trump and Russia's Vladimir Putin agree to start negotiations toward ending the Russia-Ukraine war, and a pickup in U.S. inflation fueled expectations of the Fed staying on hold for quite some time. The EIA reported a 4.1 million barrel increase in crude stockpiles, along with a first drawdown in gasoline stocks in three months. OPEC, meanwhile, kept its 2025 oil demand growth forecast at 1.45 million barrels a day. WTI settles down 2.7% at $71.37 a barrel and Brent falls 2.4% to $75.19 a barrel. (anthony.harrup@wsj.com)

1815 GMT - Oil futures extend losses after President Trump says he had a long phone conversation with Russian President Putin and expressed optimism about bringing the Russia-Ukraine war to an end as the two "agreed to start negotiations immediately." Trump also spoke with Ukrainian President Zelensky. Trump made no mention of U.S. sanctions on Russian oil, although the EIA said this week it doesn't expect the sanctions to significantly affect its 2025 global production forecasts. WTI is off 2.6% at $71.40 a barrel and Brent is down 2.3% at $75.21. (anthony.harrup@wsj.com)

1255 GMT - Oil futures are down after an industry group reports a large build in U.S. crude inventories, while OPEC holds its 2025 oil demand growth estimate at 1.45 million barrels a day. The API said crude stocks increased by 9 million barrels last week, analysts note, which follows an 8.7 million barrel build reported for the previous week by the EIA. The EIA's data for last week are due at 10:30 ET. "Crude stock builds are expected in the U.S., but the recent rate of building is more than expected," TP ICAP's Scott Shelton says in a note. "I think that we may see a slowing in the builds in February for the U.S. as exports will be stronger," he adds. WTI is down 1.2% at $72.43 a barrel, and Brent is off 1% at $76.23. (anthony.harrup@wsj.com)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250213004516:0/)
