---
title: "Global Equities Roundup: Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-12 02:31:00"
summary: "The latest Market Talks covering Equities. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.1330 ET - CoreCivic is looking at reopening its South Texas Family Residential Center, which closed in August. The closure contributed to the private prison operator missing Wall Street expectations with its 2025 outlook. But the..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The latest Market Talks covering Equities. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.

1330 ET - CoreCivic is looking at reopening its South Texas Family Residential Center, which closed in August. The closure contributed to the private prison operator missing Wall Street expectations with its 2025 outlook. But the Trump administration's strong demand for immigrant detention capacity could result in a reactivation of the center, company executives say on a call with analysts. CoreCivic usually takes four to six months to open a new facility, but it is looking to speed up that timeline to meet growing demand, and believes it could open the Texas center quickly because it hasn't been closed for long. (katherine.hamilton@wsj.com)

1327 ET - Private prison manager CoreCivic is expecting the U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement will want to add 150,000 to 200,000 new beds for detained immigrants. The company gave ICE a proposal to offer 28,000 beds for detainees, which could yield up to $1.5 billion in revenue, president and COO Patrick Swindle tells analysts. Even with the Trump administration considering housing detainees at Guantanamo Bay, CoreCivic believes ICE's demand for bed capacity is extremely strong for domestic locations, as well. (katherine.hamilton@wsj.com)

1321 ET - North America represented 62.1% of the roughly $1.5 trillion held in private-debt funds at the end of 2023, Fitch Ratings says in a report, citing data from research-provider Preqin. Private-debt assets in the Asia-Pacific region expanded at an annual average of 18.8% during the 2018-2023 period, compared to 14.3% in North America and 12.1% in Europe, according to Fitch. "Dry powder (defined as capital committed but not yet called) in private debt has a similar global distribution. North America ended 2024 with $233.1 billion of private debt dry powder, while Europe had $114.5 billion," the credit-rating specialist adds, again citing Preqin's data. (luis.garcia@wsj.com; @lhvgarcia)

1317 ET - While the North American auto industry scurries to adapt to the threat of US tariffs, auto-parts maker Magna International is deepening relationships with automakers. Magna and Mercedes-Benz are expanding their partnership, which they say is "strengthened through development and engineering services up to the production of the all-new electric model of Mercedes-Benz's iconic off-roader." Last year, Magna began production of the eDS Duo eDrive system at its Lannach facility in Austria. Magna says the long-term partnership includes the production of more than 500,000 iconic off-roader at Magna's Graz, Austria facility since 1979. (adriano.marchese@wsj.com)

1253 ET - Count golf cart manufacturing among the industries making moves to dodge trade headwinds. Massimo Group says its taking steps to assemble its MVR golf cars at a facility in Texas. The company cites a numbers of trade scuffles behind the move, noting various duties and tariffs ranging from 149% to 500% on manufacturers stemming form a petition that drew attention to how certain foreign companies, helped by government subsidies, were able to export vehicles at significantly lower costs. Massimo says that shifting production to the U.S. proactively addresses trade challenges, while also looking to diversity its supply chain into Vietnam and lessen the impact of any tariffs from China. (paul.ziobro@wsj.com)

1230 ET - Carrier Global is thinking about tariffs by category. The air-conditioning and building-automation company's first category relates to what's been implemented such as those concerning China. CEO David Gitlin on an earnings call says the second bucket relates to Mexico, Canada and Europe, which Carrier also feels confident it can and will mitigate as well. "The big one that we have to keep an eye on is Mexico because we have operations down there," he adds. Gitlin emphasizes much about tariffs remains to be seen, and that the company is looking at pricing measures and actions to mitigate any impact it can't fully mitigate through pricing and supply chain issues. (denny.jacob@wsj.com; @pennedbyden)

1210 ET - Marriott International plans to spend up to $1.1 billion in 2025 on improving its technology, renovating its hotels and adding new rooms. The hotel operator's tech spend will go toward the multi-year transformation of its property management, reservations and loyalty systems, CFO CFO Leeny Oberg says on a call with analysts. About one-third of Marriott's total expenditures this year will go toward renovating its Elegant Hotels portfolio in Barbados, which it expects to sell upon completion, Oberg adds. The company will also spend on new contacts to expand its global portfolio, she says. Analysts surveyed by FactSet were expecting capital expenditures of $506.4 million in 2025. Shares fall 5.4%. (connor.hart@wsj.com)

1158 ET - To estimate the impact of President Trump's new round of tariffs, look back at 2018-2019, AutoNation executives say. The national car dealer says there is potential for tariffs from a new Trump era to impact its volume and margins, and for that tariff impact to show itself in wholesale prices and "ultimately through into retail prices," the company says on an earnings call. "So, the 2018 experience of tariffs was, there was an impact in the marketplace from a price point of view," and that impact was felt one or two years until the costs were absorbed in the system, meaning manufacturers found different ways to mitigate the added costs and keep sales volume up. However, the exec notes, that's right when a global pandemic arrived. Shares fall 2.7%. (emon.reiser@wsj.com; @emonreiser)

1154 ET - Shopify says removing the de minimis trade exemption will harm small businesses, the bread and butter of its clientele. In a call to investors, executives said small and medium businesses are responsible for around two-thirds of all jobs created and said that merchants on the platform alone move billions of dollar across the border, and de minimis is crucial for them. Executives said that they try to help by displaying more information, such as what duties are being collected at checkout, or make it easier for shoppers to buy from their own countries. "We try to protect and empower every business we can but obviously especially we care about the underdogs," they said. (adriano.marchese@wsj.com)

1151 ET - Higher revenue from fees boosted Marriott International's results in 2024, but a repeat isn't likely in 2025. The hotel operator expects gross fees to rise 4% to 6%, or to between $5.4 billion and $5.5 billion, for the year, missing the $5.53 billion that Wall Street expected. CFO Leeny Oberg says on a call with analysts that this figure represents lower credit card fees, which are expected to normalize. Residential branding fees could decline nearly 50%, in part due to a particularly strong 2024, she says, but also because these fees tend to be lumpy and likely won't pick back up until 2026. Foreign exchange is also expected to hurt fee revenue, likely by about $25 million, Oberg says. Shares fall 5.8%. (connor.hart@wsj.com)

1148 ET - SharkNinja's latest C-suite hire is proof of its commitment to brand expansion and business growth, says Jefferies' Randal Konik in a research note. The company known for its blenders, vacuums and other home gadgets names Linus Karlsson as chief creative officer, effective March 3; he most recently served as CCO for IKEA. Konik says the Shark and Ninja brands have become recognizable and ones that consumers now trust across categories, which has allowed them credibility to expand into unexpected areas such as beauty. "We see Karlsson as the latest addition of top-tier talent at SN that will likely drive SharkNinja's innovation flywheel, solidify its market leadership, and ensure sustained competitive advantage going forward," the analyst says. (denny.jacob@wsj.com; @pennedbyden)

1144 ET - Merck's advanced takeover talks with the U.S. biotech Springworks Therapeutics will likely have a minimal impact on earnings estimates, analysts at DZ Bank say in a note. Springworks fits into the German company's strategy of focusing on drugs below the blockbuster threshold, they say. However, both companies are too small to predict a guaranteed success of the merger. In principle, a strengthening of the Merck Healthcare division is desirable, DZ Bank analysts say. Merck has long stated its desire for larger acquisitions in the healthcare and life science space, which should be possible even after this transaction, according to the DZ Bank. Shares are flat at 134.95 euros. (helena.smolak@wsj.com)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250211008679:0/)
