---
title: "First Trust Advisors L.P. Announces Distribution for First Trust Income Opportunities ETF"
date: "2025-02-11 05:10:00"
summary: "First Trust Advisors L.P. Announces Distribution for First Trust Income Opportunities ETFWHEATON, Ill.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--February 10, 2025--First Trust Advisors L.P. (\"FTA\") announces the declaration of the Monthly distribution for First Trust Income Opportunities ETF, a series of First Trust Exchange-Traded Fund VIII.The following dates apply to today's distribution declaration: Expected Ex-Dividend..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

First Trust Advisors L.P. Announces Distribution for First Trust Income Opportunities ETF

WHEATON, Ill.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--February 10, 2025--

First Trust Advisors L.P. ("FTA") announces the declaration of the Monthly distribution for First Trust Income Opportunities ETF, a series of First Trust Exchange-Traded Fund VIII.

The following dates apply to today's distribution declaration:

```
   
        Expected Ex-Dividend Date:    February 11, 2025   
        Record Date:                  February 11, 2025   
        Payable Date:                 February 28, 2025   
   
   
                                                                     Ordinary   
                                                                      Income   
                                                                     Per Share   
 Ticker   Exchange    Fund Name                         Frequency     Amount   
--------  ---------  ---------------------------------  ----------  ----------   
   
 ACTIVELY MANAGED EXCHANGE-TRADED FUNDS   
   
 First Trust Exchange-Traded Fund VIII   
                      First Trust Income Opportunities   
 FCEF      Nasdaq      ETF                               Monthly     $0.1350   
 
```

First Trust Advisors L.P. ("FTA") is a federally registered investment advisor and serves as the Fund's investment advisor. FTA and its affiliate First Trust Portfolios L.P. ("FTP"), a FINRA registered broker-dealer, are privately-held companies that provide a variety of investment services. FTA has collective assets under management or supervision of approximately $256 billion as of December 31, 2024 through unit investment trusts, exchange-traded funds, closed-end funds, mutual funds and separate managed accounts. FTA is the supervisor of the First Trust unit investment trusts, while FTP is the sponsor. FTP is also a distributor of mutual fund shares and exchange-traded fund creation units. FTA and FTP are based in Wheaton, Illinois.

You should consider the investment objectives, risks, charges and expenses of the Fund before investing. The prospectus for the Fund contains this and other important information and is available free of charge by calling toll-free at 1-800-621-1675 or visiting www.ftportfolios.com. The prospectus should be read carefully before investing.

Principal Risk Factors: You could lose money by investing in a fund. An investment in a fund is not a deposit of a bank and is not insured or guaranteed. There can be no assurance that a fund's objective(s) will be achieved. Investors buying or selling shares on the secondary market may incur customary brokerage commissions. Please refer to each fund's prospectus and Statement of Additional Information for additional details on a fund's risks. The order of the below risk factors does not indicate the significance of any particular risk factor.

Past performance is no assurance of future results. Investment return and market value of an investment in a Fund will fluctuate. Shares, when sold, may be worth more or less than their original cost.

A Fund's shares will change in value, and you could lose money by investing in a Fund. An investment in a Fund is not a deposit of a bank and is not insured or guaranteed by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation or any other governmental agency. There can be no assurance that a Fund's investment objectives will be achieved. An investment in a Fund involves risks similar to those of investing in any portfolio of equity securities traded on exchanges. The risks of investing in each Fund are spelled out in its prospectus, shareholder report, and other regulatory filings.

ETF shares may only be redeemed directly from a fund by authorized participants in very large creation/redemption units. ETF shares may trade at a discount to net asset value and possibly face delisting.

All or a portion of a fund's otherwise tax exempt interest dividends may be taxable to those shareholders subject to the federal and state alternative minimum tax.

Securities of small- and mid-capitalization companies may experience greater price volatility and be less liquid than larger, more established companies whereas large capitalization companies may grow at a slower rate than the overall market.

A fund that effects all or a portion of its creations and redemptions for cash rather than in-kind may be less tax efficient.

Current market conditions risk is the risk that a particular investment, or shares of the fund in general, may fall in value due to current market conditions. For example, changes in governmental fiscal and regulatory policies, disruptions to banking and real estate markets, actual and threatened international armed conflicts and hostilities, and public health crises, among other significant events, could have a material impact on the value of the fund's investments.

A fund normally distributes income it earns, so a fund may be required to reduce its distributions if it has insufficient income. Distributions in excess of a Fund's current and accumulated earnings and profits will be treated as a return of capital. There may be other circumstances when all or a portion of a Fund's distribution is treated as a return of capital, for example, there are times when Fund securities are sold to cover a derivative position that generated all or a portion of the distribution that could lead to a return of capital.

A fund is susceptible to operational risks through breaches in cyber security. Such events could cause a fund to incur regulatory penalties, reputational damage, additional compliance costs associated with corrective measures and/or financial loss.

In managing a fund's investment portfolio, the portfolio managers will apply investment techniques and risk analyses that may not have the desired result.

Market risk is the risk that a particular security, or shares of a fund in general may fall in value. Securities are subject to market fluctuations caused by such factors as general economic conditions, political events, regulatory or market developments, changes in interest rates and perceived trends in securities prices. Shares of a fund could decline in value or underperform other investments as a result. In addition, local, regional or global events such as war, acts of terrorism, spread of infectious disease or other public health issues, recessions, natural disasters or other events could have significant negative impact on a fund.

A fund with significant exposure to a single asset class, country, region, industry, or sector may be more affected by an adverse economic or political development than a broadly diversified fund.

Commodity prices can have a significant volatility and exposure to commodities can cause the value of a fund's shares to decline or fluctuate in a rapid and unpredictable manner.

Certain securities are subject to call, credit, extension, income, inflation, interest rate, prepayment and zero coupon risks. These risks could result in a decline in a security's value and/or income, increased volatility as interest rates rise or fall and have an adverse impact on a fund's performance.

The use of listed and OTC derivatives, including futures, options, swap agreements and forward contracts, can lead to losses because of adverse movements in the price or value of the underlying asset, index or rate, which may be magnified by certain features of the derivatives.

Securities of non-U.S. issuers are subject to additional risks, including currency fluctuations, political risks, withholding, the lack of adequate financial information, and exchange control restrictions impacting non-U.S. issuers. These risks may be heightened for securities of companies located in, or with significant operations in, emerging market countries.

A fund may invest in the shares of other funds, which involves additional expenses that would not be present in a direct investment in the underlying funds. In addition, a fund's investment performance and risks may be related to the investment performance and risks of the underlying funds.

First Trust Advisors L.P. (FTA) is the adviser to the First Trust fund(s). FTA is an affiliate of First Trust Portfolios L.P., the distributor of the fund(s).

The information presented is not intended to constitute an investment recommendation for, or advice to, any specific person. By providing this information, First Trust is not undertaking to give advice in any fiduciary capacity within the meaning of ERISA, the Internal Revenue Code or any other regulatory framework. Financial professionals are responsible for evaluating investment risks independently and for exercising independent judgment in determining whether investments are appropriate for their clients.

Source: First Trust Advisors L.P.

View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20250210416393/en/

CONTACT: Press Inquiries, Ryan Issakainen, 630-765-8689

Broker Inquiries, Sales Team, 866-848-9727

Analyst Inquiries, Stan Ueland, 630-517-7633

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250210009961:0/)
