---
title: "Tariff Talk Adds Uncertainty to Canadian Timber Player West Fraser — Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-13 06:24:00"
summary: "1724 ET - Canadian timber company West Fraser already has a few things — namely, high mortgage rates that are making housing less affordable — that are weighing on demand for its products such as lumber. Add the threat of tariffs as another layer of uncertainty. CEO Sean McLaren says..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

1724 ET - Canadian timber company West Fraser already has a few things — namely, high mortgage rates that are making housing less affordable — that are weighing on demand for its products such as lumber. Add the threat of tariffs as another layer of uncertainty. CEO Sean McLaren says in conjunction with 4Q earnings that the potential for the Trump administration to impose broad-based tariffs on Canadian exports "adds another element of demand uncertainty for the produce we ship to the U.S. from Canada." West Fraser is rolling with it, however, and says it can be proactive by focusing on improving the costs across its mills and invest to modernize operations "where it makes sense." (paul.ziobro@wsj.com)

1659 ET - Pilgrim's Pride, the second largest chicken company, reported a $236 million profit for 4Q, up from $135 million the prior year as livestock feed costs decline across the meat industry. Pilgrim's sales fell 3.5% to $4.37 billion, missing analyst expectations for the period. Besides lower prices for grain to feed its chickens, Pilgrim's said operational efficiencies also helped it improve its profitability. "While we experienced a positive market environment with lower input costs and strong chicken demand in 2024, we elevated our performance across all regions through a continued focus on controlling what we can control," said CEO Fabio Sandri in an earnings statement. Shares fell 2.5% in aftermarket trading. (patrick.thomas@wsj.com)

1654 ET - Cryptocurrency drove nearly half of Robinhood's transaction-based revenue in 4Q, the online brokerage says. Crypto volumes expanded four-fold and higher crypto valuations boosted total assets under custody. The digital currency's power in Robinhood's financials is something to watch as the regulatory environment eases under the Trump administration and the company continues to make investments in the sector. It added seven new crypto assets in the U.S. last year and agreed to buy the crypto exchange Bitstamp, which is set to be finalized in the first half of 2025. Shares up 13% to $62.99 in after hours trading. (katherine.hamilton@wsj.com)

1626 ET - To-go coffee company Dutch Bros is continuing its hot streak of growth, reporting a 6.9% increase in 4Q same-store sales and a 35% jump in revenue. Adjusted earnings per share and revenue beat analysts' expectations. Dutch Bros said it will expand its mobile ordering test this year, standing to further nip at coffee giant Starbucks's heels. Dutch Bros shares rise 29% in after-hours trading. (heather.haddon@wsj.com; @heatherhaddon)

1605 ET - U.S. stocks trade mostly lower after the consumer price index rose 3% in January from a year earlier, likely derailing the prospect for Federal Reserve rate cuts anytime soon. Fed Chair Powell tells congress that "we're not quite there yet," on inflation. CVS Health shares jump 15% after earnings that beat Wall Street's expectations, while Chevron lost 1.6% after saying it plans to cut its workforce up to 20%, as part of an effort to reduce costs. DJIA falls 225 points, or 0.5%, to 44368, the S&P 500 loses 0.3% to 6051 and the Nasdaq posts a slight gains to 19649. (patrick.sullivan@wsj.com)

1542 ET - Baird analysts had been expecting a few obstacles to dampen Marriott International's outlook for 2025. "However, there are more than a few headwinds forecasted to negatively impact earnings," they say in a research note. The hotel operator on Tuesday issued lower-than-expected guidance for the current quarter and year, hurt in part by a slowdown in fee-based revenue and an uptick in spending on technology. The outlooks overshadowed what was otherwise a better-than-expected 4Q report, analysts say. "The bar was high, and the print needed to be perfect (it was not)." Shares rebound 0.7% after finishing Tuesday 5.4% lower. (connor.hart@wsj.com)

1528 ET - Rising power prices and increasing outages are electrifying demand for Generac's home standby and portable generators. Generac CEO Aaron Jagdfeld said 2024 had the most power outages since 2010 largely due to natural disasters. At the same time, demand to power artificial intelligence is surging and the transition to lower carbon sources is making power supplies less reliable. All this is likely to drive up electricity prices significantly. "We believe homeowners and businesses will begin to invest more aggressively in solutions to help them reduce their electric bills and improve resiliency," said Jagdfeld. The stock rose 9%, to $154.31, Wednesday. (katherine.hamilton@wsj.com)

1526 ET - Chip-card technology was supposed to cut down on fraud when it was rolled out in the mid-2010s. But roughly a decade of evidence shows that the tech has only enabled limited progress on fighting fraud, economist Fumiko Hayashi of the Kansas City Fed finds. Fraud rates on dual-message payment networks (such as Visa, Mastercard and Discover) have in general failed to decline, or have even increased, despite broad adoption of chip debit cards. (The research excludes prepaid debit cards.) Fraud trends are a bit better for single-message payment networks, which require the user to enter a PIN at the point of sale in addition to inserting the chip. Understanding why this has happened will require more research, Hayashi writes. (matt.grossman@wsj.com, @mattgrossman)

1523 ET - The opening of Churchill Downs' Owensboro racing and gaming venue represents its seventh horse racing entertainment investment in Kentucky as the company takes advantage of its privileged position in the state. The investment made by the Louisville, Ky.-based company, known for its Kentucky Derby race and casinos, stood at $100 million as planned, and was completed on time. CEO Bill Carstanjen says the expansion is part of its plan to expand its footprint in western Kentucky. The company didn't provide details about additional expansion plans in the region or outside of it. Shares fall 0.5% to $121.21. (sabela.ojea@wsj.com; @sabelaojeaguix)

1505 ET - Oil futures backed off from a three-session rally as U.S. crude inventories posted another large weekly build, President Trump and Russia's Vladimir Putin agree to start negotiations toward ending the Russia-Ukraine war, and a pickup in U.S. inflation fueled expectations of the Fed staying on hold for quite some time. The EIA reported a 4.1 million barrel increase in crude stockpiles, along with a first drawdown in gasoline stocks in three months. OPEC, meanwhile, kept its 2025 oil demand growth forecast at 1.45 million barrels a day. WTI settles down 2.7% at $71.37 a barrel and Brent falls 2.4% to $75.19 a barrel. (anthony.harrup@wsj.com)

1500 ET - Deutsche Bank's U.S. economists maintain their call that the Fed will not choose to cut rates in 2025 after the hot January CPI data. In their base case, the DB team now thinks that the March Fed dot plot will show less inclination to cut rates this year, and that the June dot plot will erase the penciled-in cuts from the current 4.25% to 4.5% target. Rate hikes aren't out of the question but "the bar is likely to be high," the DB team writes. Hikes would likely require that, first, "downside risks to the labor market need to be extinguished," and, second, "core PCE inflation would need to accelerate towards or above 3% in year-over-year terms." Core PCE was up by 2.8% in the 12 months through December. (matt.grossman@wsj.com, @mattgrossman)

1441 ET - Colonel's Island Terminal in Brunswick, Georgia, was the busiest U.S. port for cars and heavy equipment last year, Georgia Ports Authority says. The facility handled over 901,000 units of autos and heavy equipment in 2024, in the wake of a series of improvements which included new warehousing and processing space. Brunswick was also the top port for roll-on/roll-off exports in 2024, moving 600,000 tons, the Authority says. Overall, the facility handled over 2 million tons of roll-on-roll-off cargo last year, according to the Authority. (stephen.nakrosis@wsj.com)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250212015736:0/)
