---
title: "Global Forex and Fixed Income Roundup: Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-12 20:20:00"
summary: "The latest Market Talks covering FX and Fixed Income. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.1120 GMT - Most Canadians are worried about retirement, a Bank of Montreal survey finds. It notes that 76% of Canadians are worried about not having enough money in retirement because of rising..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The latest Market Talks covering FX and Fixed Income. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.

1120 GMT - Most Canadians are worried about retirement, a Bank of Montreal survey finds. It notes that 76% of Canadians are worried about not having enough money in retirement because of rising prices, and 63% believe price increases over the past 12 months have limited their ability to save for retirement. On average, those surveyed believe they will need just over C$1.54 million to retire, down from C$1.67 million in 2023. "The spike in prices as the economy emerged from the pandemic is a stark reminder rising prices can affect spending, investment and savings plans," says BMO senior economist Robert Kavcic. The online survey of 1,500 adults was conducted in November. (robb.stewart@wsj.com)

1158 GMT - The European Commission's plan to withdraw proposed new patent rules for standardized technologies sends a 'terrible signal' to innovative businesses, who rely on fair licensing, the Fair Standards Alliance says. The FSA is a lobby group backed by smartphone makers such as Apple and auto groups like BMW and Ford. It says scrapping the regulation goes against a call by former European Central Bank President Mario Draghi to create policies that make it easier for businesses in the bloc to innovate. "We urge the commission to reconsider," the group says. (edith.hancock@wsj.com)

1143 GMT - The dollar could fall slightly further if U.S. inflation data at 1330 GMT are lower than expected, ING's Chris Turner says in a note. Annual benchmark revisions to inflation increase the risk that the January print is 0.2% on-month versus the 0.3% expected, he says. This could give the Federal Reserve slightly more confidence in the disinflation process and prompt markets to price in more interest rate cuts for 2025, he says. Given some sense of financial market stability as U.S. interest rate volatility falls, the DXY dollar index could fall to 107.300 from 107.883 currently. However, any announcement of new tariffs from President Trump would "easily blow any ideas of a dollar correction out of the water." (renae.dyer@wsj.com)

1126 GMT - The allotment yield levels at Portugal's government bond auction on Wednesday are within the average levels recorded in recent months, Banco Carregosa's Filipe Silva says in a post-auction comment. Portugal's debt agency sold a total of 1.496 billion euros in 2034-, 2042- and 2052-dated bonds with allotment yields at 2.786%, 3.342% and 3.433%, respectively. "Currently, we are in a context of falling interest rates, however, longer maturities reflect expectations of several rate cuts by the European Central Bank," the investment director says. This was Portugal's first government bond auction this year, but it already carried out a 4 billion-euro syndicated issue of a 10-year bond in January. Portugal also had a bond buyback auction in January. (emese.bartha@wsj.com)

1058 GMT - The sharp fall in India's headline consumer price inflation in January vindicates last week's rate cut by the RBI, and suggests that more easing lies in store, says Harry Chambers at Capital Economics. Food inflation will likely continue easing, and given softer economic growth, underlying price pressures will be capped, the assistant economist adds. With inflation moderating and the RBI's focus pivoting to boosting economic growth, Chambers expects another 75 bps of cuts this year as the central bank continues to loosen policy over the coming months to support the economy. (kimberley.kao@wsj.com)

1054 GMT - The cost of insuring euro credit against default using credit default swaps falls ahead of the release of the U.S. inflation data at 1330 GMT. U.S. annual headline inflation is likely to steady near 2.9% and core inflation may have decelerated to 3.1% from 3.2%, Swissquote Bank's Ipek Ozkardeskaya says in a note. "A set of softer-than-expected inflation numbers could help sooth inflation worries," she says. The iTraxx Europe Crossover index which tracks euro junk bond credit default swaps declines 1 basis point to 287bps, S&P Global Market Intelligence data show. The iTraxx Europe Senior Financials index which tracks euro investment-grade financial bond CDS falls 1 basis point to 58bps. (miriam.mukuru@wsj.com)

1036 GMT - Modest fiscal expansion in Germany--if this is implemented after the upcoming elections on Feb. 23--wouldn't change investment fundamentals for German and European assets, says State Street Global Advisors. "Weak economic growth, albeit stronger than in 2024, coupled with falling inflation will keep bond yields in decline and the euro weak in the near term," it says. However, greater issuance of Bunds and the growth gap in favor of Europe's periphery imply narrower spreads between Bunds and peripheral bonds, it says. France is an exception, where political paralysis and fiscal excess will likely weigh on long-dated government bonds. Unlike Germany, most other eurozone countries have little scope for public spending. (emese.bartha@wsj.com)

1028 GMT - France has robust foundations on which to weather a trade battle with the U.S., central-bank governor Francois Villeroy de Galhau argues. The eurozone's second-largest economy is, like the rest of the continent, braced for punitive tariffs on its goods exported to the U.S. under President Trump. But France isn't reliant solely on strong export sectors like aeronautics and luxury goods, Villeroy insists. "The French economy... also includes many services, artificial intelligence, tourism and many other areas still developing," the policymaker says. France's level of price inflation has meanwhile been tamed and unemployment is at relatively low levels, he tells Radio France. (joshua.kirby@wsj.com; @joshualeokirby)

1025 GMT - Europe should treat U.S. President Trump as wake-up call, Bank of France Governor Francois Villeroy de Galhau says. Trump's election to a second term in the White House has brought about an immediate cooling of relations between the U.S. and Europe, with mutual threats of trade tariffs. Europe must not allow itself to be caught unaware by Trump's mercurial policymaking, Villeroy tells Radio France. "That is not a viable economic strategy," he says. Europe has many strengths and should not make a rod for its own back, says Villeroy, who serves on the governing council of the European Central Bank. "It is very much to be wished that Europe wake up," he says. (joshua.kirby@wsj.com; @joshualeokirby)

1015 GMT - Finland's Nokia welcomes the European Commission's intention to withdraw a hotly-debated plan to regulate royalty payouts for standardized technologies used in smartphones and connected cars, the company says in a statement. "We share the Commission's goals for more transparent and efficient licensing" of so-called standard essential patents, a spokesperson says, adding that the commission's first stab at drafting the rules was flawed. "It would have had an adverse impact on the global innovation ecosystem," they say. They add that it would have reduced incentives for Europe's high-tech companies to invest in developing new standards for technologies like 6G. "The Commission's willingness to rethink its approach on this important topic is a positive step," they say.(edith.hancock@wsj.com)

0945 GMT - Bitcoin edges lower on market volatility and investor caution ahead of U.S. inflation data, Zaye Capital Markets analyst Naeem Aslam says in a note. The inflation data at 1330 GMT could affect broader financial markets and cryptocurrency valuations, he says. "Additionally, recent geopolitical tensions and economic uncertainties have contributed to the cautious sentiment among investors." The cryptocurrency market, particularly bitcoin, might have reached a peak, he says. The surge in so-called memecoins and President Trump's involvement in launching new cryptocurrencies are signs of potential market overheating. Zaye maintains a positive long-term view on bitcoin but advises caution due to macroeconomic concerns. Bitcoin falls 0.3% to $96,130, according to LSEG. (renae.dyer@wsj.com)

0930 GMT - Sterling and U.K. government bonds, or gilts, look unappealing due to the combination of weak growth and above-target inflation in the U.K., Michael Brown, senior research strategist at Pepperstone says in a note. "The U.K. continues to face a 'stagflationary' economic backdrop," he says. Sterling falls around 0.1% to $1.2438. A close below $1.23 would likely strengthen the currency's downward momentum, Brown says. The 10-year gilt yield trades flat at 4.510%, Tradeweb data show. (miriam.mukuru@wsj.com)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250212006640:0/)
