---
title: "News Highlights: Top Company News of the Day - Monday at 11 PM ET"
date: "2025-02-11 12:15:00"
summary: "Elliott Builds Over $2.5 Billion Stake in Phillips 66The activist investor plans to push the oil refiner to consider selling or spinning off its midstream business.Elon Musk-Led Group Makes $97.4 Billion Bid for Control of OpenAIThe unsolicited offer complicates Sam Altman's plans to convert OpenAI to a for-profit company.Hertz Prevails..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

**Elliott Builds Over $2.5 Billion Stake in Phillips 66**

The activist investor plans to push the oil refiner to consider selling or spinning off its midstream business.

**Elon Musk-Led Group Makes $97.4 Billion Bid for Control of OpenAI**

The unsolicited offer complicates Sam Altman's plans to convert OpenAI to a for-profit company.

**Hertz Prevails in Warrant-Holder's Share-Repurchase Lawsuit**

Discovery Capital Management argued the rental-car company's debt and equity deals amounted to a payment-triggering reorganization. A judge disagreed.

**Super Bowl Viewership Hits New Record With Big Boost From Free Streaming**

The Eagles' victory over the Chiefs breaks viewership record, buoyed by streaming on Tubi and NFL services.

**Berkshire Is Losing Money on Its $9 Billion Kraft Heinz Stake. Impairment Is Possible.**

Kraft Heinz has been one of the bigger disappointments in Berkshire's $300 billion equity portfolio over the past decade.

**Coca-Cola Reports Earnings on Tuesday. A Strong Dollar Could Pose Headwinds.**

Two thirds of the beverage maker's sales came from overseas in 2024.

**Humana Reports Earnings Tuesday. Medicare Advantage Is the Problem.**

An industrywide increase in medical spending by U.S. seniors over the past year or so has rocked the company.

**American Express Stock Slips as CFO Says Wall Street Is Too Upbeat**

The company's chief financial officer said growth in the first quarter would be slower than the fourth.

**Mediobanca Lifts Shareholder Return Target**

The upgrade comes after Mediobanca CEO Alberto Nagel highlighted faster growth at the bank and as the country's banking sector is in the midst of an M&A spree.

**Tesla Is Losing Ground Against Its Biggest Rival in China**

BYD makes advances in AI-powered driving software while Musk's wait for approval grows.

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250210012709:0-news-highlights-top-company-news-of-the-day-monday-at-11-pm-et/)
