---
title: "Global Equities Roundup: Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-10 09:49:00"
summary: "The latest Market Talks covering Equities. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.2049 ET - Chinese shares are mixed after opening higher. The benchmark Shanghai Composite Index is flat at 3303,77, the Shenzhen Composite Index is flat, while the ChiNext Price Index drops 0.6%. Steel stocks are down..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The latest Market Talks covering Equities. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.

2049 ET - Chinese shares are mixed after opening higher. The benchmark Shanghai Composite Index is flat at 3303,77, the Shenzhen Composite Index is flat, while the ChiNext Price Index drops 0.6%. Steel stocks are down marginally after President Trump said he plans to impose 25% tariff on all aluminum and steel imports. Baoshan Iron & Steel is off 0.7% and Inner Mongolia Baotou Steel Union drops 0.5%. Meanwhile, consumer and telecom stocks advance. Yonghui Superstores rises 2.2% and CCOOP Group is 3.4% higher. Telcos rise broadly after integrating DeepSeek into their offerings. China Mobile is up 1.4% and China Telecom advances 4.35%.(sherry.qin@wsj.com)

2046 ET - Hong Kong shares are higher in early trade, supported by tech and telecom stocks. The U.S.-China tariff war is in focus on Trump's plan to impose a 25% tariff Monday on all imports of steel and aluminum. Gains in the session are being led by China Unicom, which is up 4.9% after the company said it has installed DeepSeek for its systems. Alibaba adds 3.8%. Netease and Meituan rise 3.1% and 2.4%, respectively. China Mobile is up 2.1%. Among the top decliners, Xinyi Solar drops 2.8% and Xinyi Glass is 1.35% lower. The benchmark Hang Seng Index is up 0.85% at 21306.89 and Hang Seng Tech is 1.3% higher.(jiahui.huang@wsj.com; @ivy\_jiahuihuang)

2043 ET - Domino's Pizza Enterprises' bulls at Goldman Sachs want to see evidence of improved same-store sales growth at the Australian fast-food franchiser. GS analysts are encouraged by how swiftly the new CEO has pivoted to refocus on unit economics, but tell clients in a note that this is just a first step. They think it is now critical for the company to provide investors with comfort that same-store sales growth has passed an inflection point, especially in the more challenging Japan and France markets. GS lowers its sales forecasts through fiscal 2027 and cuts its target price 4.7% to A$38.30. Shares are down 0.9% at A$35.60. (stuart.condie@wsj.com)

2034 ET - Any declines in the Nikkei Stock Average provide a good dip-buying opportunity, given the bright outlook for corporate profits, says Rakuten Securities strategist Masayuki Kubota. The Japanese economy and corporate performance are expected to continue growing moderately, while the U.S. economy could make a soft landing, Kubota says. Japanese firms' profits could expand further unless Trump tariffs cause a global economic downturn. Net profits by major companies listed on the Tokyo Stock Exchange's prime section will likely increase by 4.8% in the year ending March and 6.3% next fiscal year based on the assumption that USD/JPY trades at 145, the strategist estimates. The benchmark stock index is last up 0.1%. (megumi.fujikawa@wsj.com)

2020 ET - IOI Properties looks set for a strong performance in 2025, driven by catalysts such as potential Shariah compliance that could boost local institutional demand for its shares, Hong Leong IB analyst Tan Kai Shuen says in a note. The property company's potential REIT listing in 2026-2027 could unlock over MYR7 billion in value from assets like IOI City Mall and IOI Resort City, he notes. Its Johor landbank could position it for industrial land sales, benefiting from the Johor-Singapore Special Economic Zone, he reckons. In Singapore, its asset IOI Central Boulevard nears full occupancy and could turn profitable by 1Q FY2026, he adds. Hong Leong maintains a buy rating on IOI Properties, with a MYR4.05 target, factoring in potential KLCI inclusion by end-2025 or 2026. Shares are 0.9% higher at MYR2.14. (yingxian.wong@wsj.com)

2016 ET - Singapore shares open higher, supported by bank stocks. Index heavyweight DBS is up 3.8% on the lender's plan to increase capital return to shareholders. OCBC Bank adds 1.4% and United Overseas Bank advances 1.2%. Decliners include CapitaLand Investment, which is down 1.2% and ST Engineering off 1.0%. Sentiment may remain cautious after President Trump threatened reciprocal tariffs and said he plans to impose 25% tariffs on imports of steel and aluminum. The benchmark FTSE Straits Times Index is 1.0% higher at 3901.13. (sherry.qin@wsj.com)

2004 ET - Malaysia's benchmark Kuala Lumpur Composite Index is 0.2% lower at 1587.49 in early trade. Caution may persist this week as risk sentiment centers on U.S. trade policy, Apex Securities says in a note. However, bargain hunting and sector rotation could provide some upside and data center stocks may rebound after prior losses, the brokerage reckons. Construction, utilities, and property sectors may see buying interest, while plantation stocks could track rising CPO prices, it adds. Apex expects local market trading to be muted ahead of the Thaipusam holiday on Tuesday.Among decliners, Gamuda Bhd. is 2.6% lower and YTL Corp. is down 1.0%. Meanwhile, Sunway Bhd. is up 0.7% and SD Guthrie adds 0.4%. (yingxian.wong@wsj.com)

2003 ET - Australia's BlueScope Steel is tipped to be a winner from President Trump's planned 25% tariffs on U.S. imports of steel and aluminum. The stock rises 2.8% to A$22.11/share, as the broader Australian market trades in the red. The U.S. is BlueScope's top region for growth. The steelmaker, which runs the North Star mini-mill in Ohio, is working to boost volumes there by another 10% following the completion of an expansion that increased output by nearly 50%. Trump says he plans to announce the 25% tariffs Monday. U.S. tariffs could help offset tough steel-market conditions for BlueScope, with spreads in Asia especially soft. BlueScope's stock hit A$22.365 earlier in Sydney, its highest since Dec. 2. (rhiannon.hoyle@wsj.com; @RhiannonHoyle)

1954 ET - LG Innotek's 1Q earnings could decline on weak seasonal demand but still beat street views, Daiwa Capital analyst S.K. Kim writes in a note. Operating profit of the South Korea-based Apple supplier is projected to fall 52% on quarter and 33% on year to KRW119 billion for the January-March period versus market consensus of KRW96 billion, Kim says. He foresees some positive catalysts for LG Innotek from the launch of a new iPhone SE model in 1Q and iPhone 17 products with enhanced Apple Intelligence features in 2025. Daiwa cuts its target for the stock by 40% to KRW210,000 and keeps a buy rating. Shares are 0.6% lower at KRW149,600. (kwanwoo.jun@wsj.com)

1926 ET - The speed with which Domino's Pizza Enterprises' new CEO has plotted a recovery path allows the Australian fast-food franchiser to shake off its bear at Macquarie. An analyst note to the investment bank's clients shows the stock raised to neutral from underperform, with the pace of CEO Mark van Dyck's strategy overhaul cited as a significant positive surprise. The refined focus on franchisee sales is seen as the key positive, since it has implications for long-term network performance. Macquarie lifts its target price on the stock 25% to A$35.10. Shares are down 2.7% at A$34.96. (stuart.condie@wsj.com)

1915 ET - Japanese stocks are lower as uncertainty about higher borrowing costs continues. Also weighing on the market are concerns about trade friction between the U.S. and its trading partners. Trading-house stocks are leading the declines. Mitsubishi Corp. is down 2.1% and Itochu is 2.2% lower. USD/JPY is at 151.72, compared with 151.62 as of Friday's Tokyo stock market close. Investors are closely watching developments over U.S. tariffs and domestic corporate earnings. The Nikkei Stock Average is down 0.4% at 38647.60. (kosaku.narioka@wsj.com; @kosakunarioka)

1911 ET - South Korea's benchmark Kospi falls 0.6% to 2507.51 in early trade as steel, semiconductor and auto stocks retreat. Foreign investors are net sellers. Steelmakers Posco Holdings and Hyundai Steel slide 2.9% and 2.3%, respectively, with President Trump due to announce 25% tariffs on imports of steel and aluminum. Memory-chip maker SK Hynix falls 2.0%. Carmaker Hyundai Motor retreats 1.1%. Meanwhile, Woori Financial Group rises 3.6% after its 2024 net profit beat market consensus. USD/KRW is 0.6% higher at 1,455.80, compared with the prior session's Seoul onshore trading close. South Korea's 10-year government bond yield is up 4.0 bps at 2.836%. (kwanwoo.jun@wsj.com)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250209001180:0/)
