---
title: "Dow Opens Higher; Producer Inflation Tops Forecasts — WSJ"
date: "2025-02-13 22:39:00"
summary: "By Ed Ballard and Vicky Ge HuangIt's a mixed picture in markets, with investors on alert for further details of President Trump's tariff plans, as they parse more earnings and inflation data.The White House has said Trump plans to unveil reciprocal tariffs for all trading partners Thursday, ahead of his..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Ed Ballard and Vicky Ge Huang

It's a mixed picture in markets, with investors on alert for further details of President Trump's tariff plans, as they parse more earnings and inflation data.

The White House has said Trump plans to unveil reciprocal tariffs for all trading partners Thursday, ahead of his meeting with Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi. India's high tariff rates make it more vulnerable than most to tit-for-tat levies.

In addition, Trump said Wednesday he and President Vladimir Putin had agreed to begin talks on a peace deal to settle the Ukraine war, with concessions to Russia. That helped boost European stocks and currencies, while oil prices fell.

Meantime, another U.S. inflation reading came in stronger than expected. Wholesale prices rose by 0.4% in January, and the December reading was revised up. Investors have pared back their Federal Reserve rate-cut expectations since Wednesday's surprisingly hot consumer-price index.

In recent trading:

U.S. stocks rose. All three major indexes posted small gains. Stocks fell Wednesday after the CPI report.

Benchmark Treasury yields retreated below 4.6%, after jumping in the previous session.

European equities, barring the U.K.'s FTSE 100, extended recent gains after Trump said Putin had agreed to begin Ukraine peace talks.

Brent crude futures, the international oil benchmark, fell. Any moves to ease restrictions on Russian energy producers could weigh on prices. Benchmark European natural-gas prices dropped.

The WSJ Dollar Index weakened. The euro and the U.K. pound strengthened against the greenback.

Bitcoin prices slipped to around $96,000.

Coming up:

Earnings are due late Thursday from Airbnb, Applied Materials, Coinbase and others.

Write to Ed Ballard at ed.ballard@wsj.com and Vicky Ge Huang at vicky.huang@wsj.com

This item is part of a Wall Street Journal live coverage event. The full stream can be found by searching P/WSJL (WSJ Live Coverage).

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250213010550:0/)
