---
title: "Global Forex and Fixed Income Roundup: Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-10 22:28:00"
summary: "The latest Market Talks covering FX and Fixed Income. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.0928 ET - The dollar weakens against most major currencies while dollar indexes rise, as markets react to a new set of tariffs announced by President Trump over the weekend. Both the ICE's..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The latest Market Talks covering FX and Fixed Income. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.

0928 ET - The dollar weakens against most major currencies while dollar indexes rise, as markets react to a new set of tariffs announced by President Trump over the weekend. Both the ICE's DXY gauge and the broader WSJ Dollar Index rise around 0.1%, while the greenback weakens 0.2% against the euro and strengthens 0.3% versus the yen. The 25% levy on all steel and aluminum imports to the U.S. looks less likely to be avoided the way previous country-targeting tariffs were. Goldman Sachs' Stuart Jenkins writes that "we think they would have a more durable Dollar impact that the market is not yet fully pricing." (paulo.trevisani@wsj.com; @ptrevisani)

0911 ET - Treasury yields hover around Friday's settlement levels as the week once again starts with the threat of tariffs announced over the weekend. This time around, there seems to be less room for negotiation to avoid a 25% levy on steel and aluminium. Questions remain about how tariffs will impact inflation and Fed decisions on interest rates. Markets are mostly pricing not more than one cut this year, CME data show. That could be a sign of growing concerns about inflation. Chair Powell has his semiannual report to Congress tomorrow at the Senate and Wednesday at the House. The 10-year is at 4.486% and the two-year at 4.271%. (paulo.trevisani@wsj.com; @ptrevisani)

0849 ET - Canada stands to bear the brunt of the pain from President Trump's 25% tariff on steel and aluminum tariffs. Canada is the top exporter to the U.S. of steel, accounting for about 25% of steel imports, via the International Trade Administration. Mexico is No. 2 at about 15%. Canada is by far the biggest seller to the US of aluminum, accounting for 60% of imports. Canada won a reprieve last week on 25% tariffs on all its nonenergy US-bound exports, which Trump says he will revisit early next month to ensure Ottawa is living up to its commitment to fortify border security and deter fentanyl trafficking. (Paul.Vieira@wsj.com, @paulvieira)

0834 ET - Investors are rushing to lock in attractive yields on euro-denominated corporate bonds as they expect yields on sovereign bonds to decline as the European Central Bank continues to cut interest rates, asset management company Edmond de Rothschild says in a note. "The outlook for lower yields to come is driving current demand as euro investment-grade is yielding an attractive 3.2% and euro high-yield 5.6%," they say. The ECB could cut the deposit rate to below 2.0% by the end of the summer from 2.75% currently, Edmond de Rothschild says. It would be advisable to buy long-dated euro corporate bonds, the asset manager says. (miriam.mukuru@wsj.com)

0828 ET - The euro could strengthen against the dollar if the EU avoids harsh tariffs from Trump, Morgan Stanley analysts say in a note. "Our base case includes gradual, targeted tariffs on the EU later in 2025, preceded by a reinstatement of the Section 232 steel and aluminum tariffs," they say. Such targeted tariffs would unlikely have a significant impact on euro-area economic growth. Morgan Stanley continues to advise buying the euro, targeting a level of $1.08. The euro is last up 0.2% at $1.0316. (renae.dyer@wsj.com)

0823 ET - The cost of insuring euro credit against default using credit default swaps edges lower as markets settle after the French budget passed through parliament last week and the Bank of England cut interest rates by 25 basis points. Falls are limited, however, as tariff risks loom, with U.S. President Trump announcing plans for 25% tariffs on steel and aluminum imports on Sunday. Markets could be underestimating the threat of a trade war, asset management company, Edmond de Rothschild, says in a note. The iTraxx Europe Crossover index which tracks euro junk bond credit default swaps falls 2 basis points to 290bps, S&P Global Market Intelligence data show. The iTraxx Europe Senior Financials which tracks euro investment-grade financial bonds, declines 1bp to 59bps. (miriam.mukuru@wsj.com)

0751 ET - Dutch telecommunications company KPN is marketing a new euro-denominated 10-year bond. The deal offers investors a generous valuation, with an initial price talk of mid-swap rate plus 150 basis points, CreditSights analysts say in a note. The initial price talk implies around 45 basis points new issue concession compared with other similar KPN bonds, the analysts say. "We expect the initial price talk to be tightened up, and we would be buyers north of mid-swap rate plus 120 basis points (around 3.5% yield)," CreditSights says. KPN credit is likely to perform in line with other credit from similar companies in the same sector, says CreditSights, which has a market perform rating on the company's debt. (miriam.mukuru@wsj.com)

0731 ET - The Canadian dollar is at risk of renewed depreciation given the continued threat of tariffs from President Trump, Monex Europe analysts say in a note. The currency recovered some ground after Trump last week announced a 30-day suspension of tariffs on Canada and Mexico. However, tariff risks remain elevated, the analysts say. "Markets will watch for further policy concessions from Canada and whether the tariff suspension becomes permanent." Canada's jobs report on Friday will also be key with employment trends likely influencing Bank of Canada interest rate expectations. USD/CAD falls 0.3% to 1.4338. (renae.dyer@wsj.com)

0634 ET - The Turkish lira hit a record low against the dollar overnight and faces increased volatility in coming months as Turkey's central bank could cut interest rates further despite elevated inflation, Commerzbank analyst Tatha Ghose says in a note. The bank's Governor Fatih Karahan said Friday a pause in rate cuts was possible if the inflation outlook deteriorates but this failed to lift the lira. His comments came as the bank raised its year-end inflation forecast to 24%. A signal that rates could be raised might have reassured markets, Ghose says. However, Karahan's remarks sound "hollow" and suggest he doesn't view the current outlook to be problematic. That means rate cuts could continue. USD/TRY rises 0.1% to 36.0029 after earlier hitting a high of 36.0643, according to FactSet. (renae.dyer@wsj.com)

0626 ET - A widening of the 10-year U.S. Treasury-German Bund yield spread towards 220 basis points would promp Jefferies to initiate a short position in Bunds versus Treasurys, says global economist Mohit Kumar in a note. The yield differential between the two is currently 212 basis points, according to Tradeweb. A spread widening could happen either by a faster rise in U.S. Treasury yields than in Bund yields, or by Bund yields declining faster than Treasury yields. (emese.bartha@wsj.com)

0624 ET - An estimate of the neutral interest rate by the European Central Bank, or by any other model, is of questionable value in gauging the degree of policy restriction, BNP Paribas Markets 360 analysts say in a note. The neutral rate is a theoretical rate which neither stimulates nor restricts the economy. It's also uncertain how policymakers think about the neutral rate when it comes to calibrating policy, they say. The ECB announced last week that its economists estimate the neutral rate at between 1.75% and 2.25%. (emese.bartha@wsj.com)

0610 ET - Yields on euro-denominated and sterling-denominated corporate bonds declined last week, tracking falls in sovereign bond yields after the French budget passed through parliament and the Bank of England cut interest rates by 25 basis points, CreditSights analysts say in a note. Average yields on euro investment-grade bonds fell 5 basis points to 3.1% while average yields on sterling investment-grade bonds declined 6bps to 5.3%, the analysts say. New supply of euro and sterling corporate bonds "showed no signs of slowing down," the analysts say. (miriam.mukuru@wsj.com)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250210006227:0/)
