---
title: "Watch the CPI/PCE Split — Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-14 03:33:00"
summary: "1433 ET - There wasn't much good news in Wednesday's hotter-than-expected consumer-price-index numbers. But the Fed's preferred inflation metric, PCE inflation, probably has better tidings in store, and will be more important in determining the central bank's next steps, writes Neil Dutta of Renaissance Macro. Parsing CPI and PPI data,..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

1433 ET - There wasn't much good news in Wednesday's hotter-than-expected consumer-price-index numbers. But the Fed's preferred inflation metric, PCE inflation, probably has better tidings in store, and will be more important in determining the central bank's next steps, writes Neil Dutta of Renaissance Macro. Parsing CPI and PPI data, Dutta pencils in a 0.26% increase in core PCE in January, equating to a 2.6% 12-month core PCE inflation rate, a decline from 2.8% in December. The Fed will likely hold off on further rate cuts for the next several months, he believes. But "if inflation resumes its progress towards the Fed's objectives, I expect cuts to come in the back-half of the year," Dutta writes. (matt.grossman@wsj.com; @mattgrossman)

1433 ET - Fixed-income portfolio managers should avoid taking outsized bets and stick to the duration their clients need, as markets face increased uncertainty, says PGIM's Gregory Peters. "We are in a higher inflation regime and consequently we are in a higher rate regime," he says. Peters says Trump tariffs may increase inflation in the short term, but longer term he is afraid they could hamper growth. Meanwhile, taking risks doesn't seem to be paying off, he says. Peters likes Treasurys over corporates as spreads are tight. "The concern is on the valuation side, that I'm not getting paid for any risks." (paulo.trevisani@wsj.com; @ptrevisani)

1423 ET - Penske Automotive Group turned in a strong 4Q report as same-store sales of new vehicles jumped 7%. Gross profit on those new vehicles increased from the prior quarter, while it decreased for used vehicles. Across the industry, gross profit per vehicle is still normalizing, but the metric has stabilized for Penske thanks to its focus on premium vehicles, Benchmark analyst Michael Albanese says in a research note. The analyst also points out that a 4Q inflection in the earnings for Penske's truck rental segment suggests a potential bottom for that business. Shares rise 8.5%. (dean.seal@wsj.com)

1406 ET - Hewlett Packard Enterprise ships its first artificial-intelligence system with Nvidia's Blackwell chips to help companies accelerate the adoption of generative AI. The partnership, announced in June, uses HPE's advanced cooling systems to boost performance of the latest generation of Nvidia's high performance AI chips. Nvidia's Blackwell chips are designed to be about 25 times as energy efficient as its previous high-end version. Nvidia stock gains 2.9%, while HPE shares rise 0.5%. (chris.wack@wsj.com)

1345 ET - Crocs isn't planning significant price increases in the short-term. While the clog and sandal company knows what it'll do for now, CEO Andrew Rees says "we don't necessarily know what's going to happen in the longer term." Rees on an earnings call says the company on a philosophical level considers factors including what the competition is doing as well as the strength of its own brands. He adds that past pricing efforts have helped its namesake brand's gross margin improve over the last few years. Rees also notes pricing is an important lever and the company feels well priced today but will remain nimble.(denny.jacob@wsj.com; @pennedbyden)

1341 ET - Investments in AI and cloud will drive global IT spending growth to 9% this year, S&P Global Ratings says in a report. "Alphabet, Meta, Microsoft, and Amazon are significantly increasing capital expenditure despite emerging AI efficiency gains," S&P says, adding the robust spending plans come amid DeepSeek's recent efficiency breakthroughs. The agency also says the semiconductor industry is sharply divided, "with AI-driven demand surging while traditional markets such as PCs, automotive, and industrial segment face headwinds." In the face of possible tariffs, customers have been accelerating hardware purchases, S&P adds. (stephen.nakrosis@wsj.com)

1334 ET - UBS expects Wayfair's value proposition to shine given recent investments and continued efforts to right-size cost structure. The analysts say in a research note that the moves could drive "a powerful P&L inflection ahead." As for the impact of higher tariffs on Chinese goods, the analysts say the company is in a better position than other traditional home furnishings players. UBS estimates 50% to 60% Wayfair's sales are sourced from China. Since it has a marketplace model, the analysts say Wayfair should be able to pass along any incremental costs from tariffs to the consumer through higher retail prices. They also point out that Wayfair's large vendor base of over 20,000 suppliers would allow it to shift its source of supply to other companies outside of China. Wayfair rises 3.1%. (sabela.ojea@wsj.com; @sabelaojeaguix)

1311 ET - American drinkers are indulging more at bars and less at home, Joe Wadford of the Bank of America Institute finds. In January, spending at liquor stores fell by 5% from a year ago, while spending at bars was up by 1%. Wadford speculates that the "dry January" trend could be leading consumers to cut. Abstaining in January is big on social media, and Gen Z led the pullback, spending 15% less on alcohol last month versus a year earlier. He also suggests that some people stocked up on liquor during the pandemic, and are still working on liquor bottles they bought a couple of years ago. Meanwhile, Baby Boomers are hitting the town. They spent 4% more at bars than a year ago last month, the biggest increase among any generation. (matt.grossman@wsj.com; @mattgrossman)

1307 ET - Deere left its FY25 profit guidance unchanged at $5 billion to $5.5 billion, but that now includes a significant 300 basis point reduction to the company's full-year tax rate, Raymond James analyst Tim Thein says in a research note. The reduction stems largely from favorable items in F1Q, the analyst says. Deere reported earnings of $869 million for F1Q, down 50% year-over-year, that includes $163 million of discrete tax benefits related to special items. "Therefore, when netted against the negative currency impacts and other quarterly items, our full year net income forecast remains unchanged," Deere's Josh Beal says on a call with analysts. (dean.seal@wsj.com)

1252 ET - Crocs has looked at tariffs and run the numbers. The clog and sandal company's guidance for 1Q and 2025 embeds an additional 10% tariff on goods imported from China as well as the anticipated additional 25% tariff on goods imported from Mexico beginning in March, says CFO Susan Healy on an earnings call. She notes that the company doesn't have any production in Canada. "In 2025, we expect the share of enterprise imports into the US from China to be approximately 15%, with Crocs at 10% and Heydude at 27%," says Healy, referring to specific brands. "Our exposure to Mexico is expected to be under 4% and for the Crocs brand only." Crocs surges 19% as 4Q results beat estimates. (denny.jacob@wsj.com; @pennedbyden)

1250 ET - Similarities are emerging between Cisco Systems and International Business Machines. IBM was unloved by investors until it started hitting numbers, buying software and posting growth, which has prompted a surge in stock price, Melius Research analysts say in a note. Cisco was similarly overlooked by Wall Street, but the networking-equipment company has struck a better tone in recent quarters, with orders trending upwards and solid gross margins. Now, orders are ramping, and the company's artificial-intelligence strategy is making real progress, analysts say. Shares rise 2.2%, one day after Cisco boosted its revenue outlook for the year, prompted by stronger-than-expected sales in its fiscal 2Q. (connor.hart@wsj.com)

1232 ET - Though it's early in the year, 2025 is showing signs of improvement for the bottom lines of U.S. farmers, says Deere on its F1Q earnings call. Officials say that they're seeing pricing pressures that farmers grappled with last year easing, which may provide a new spark for Deere sales. "On the input side, farmers are continuing to see a decline in input costs for the third consecutive year," says Deere's Josh Beal during the call, adding that government assistance coming from the American Relief Act of 2025 will also support farmers. "This assistance will offset some of the margin decline farmers saw in 2024, while potentially helping to relieve concerns around macro risk and high interest rates." (kirk.maltais@wsj.com)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250213013511:0/)
