---
title: "Wholesale prices pop and point to persistent inflation pressures in guts of the U.S. economy"
date: "2025-02-13 21:35:00"
summary: "By Jeffry BartashProducer price index rises sharply early in 2025The numbers: Wholesale prices rose sharply in January in another sign of lingering inflationary pressures in the economy that will keep high U.S. interest rates from falling much anytime soon.The producer price index increased 0.4% last month, the government said Thursday...."
categories:
  - "MarketWatch"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "MarketWatch"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Jeffry Bartash

Producer price index rises sharply early in 2025

The numbers: Wholesale prices rose sharply in January in another sign of lingering inflationary pressures in the economy that will keep high U.S. interest rates from falling much anytime soon.

The producer price index increased 0.4% last month, the government said Thursday. Economists polled by The Wall Street Journal had forecast a 0.3% gain.

The increase in wholesale inflation in the past 12 months rose to 3.5% from 3.3%. That's the highest rate in almost two years.

The PPI report follows a sharp uptick in the consumer prices in January that rattled financial markets and raised the possibility of the Federal Reserve not cutting interest rates this year.

High borrowing costs have punished home buyers and made it more expensive for people to buy cars. The cost of borrowing has also discouraged business investment.

High rates tend to slow the economy over time, however, and reduce the rate of inflation. The Fed has paused further rate cuts until it sees more evidence that inflation is decelerating again.

Big picture: Inflation is too high to justify a further reduction in borrowing costs.

What's still unclear are the impact of President Trump's economic agenda. Some of his policies could boost the economy, but others such as tariffs threaten to raise prices and add to inflation.

Market reaction: The Dow Jones Industrial Average DJIA and S&P 500 SPX were set to open mixed in Thursday trading.

-Jeffry Bartash

This content was created by MarketWatch, which is operated by Dow Jones & Co. MarketWatch is published independently from Dow Jones Newswires and The Wall Street Journal.

[MarketWatch](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_SN20250213008999:0/)
