---
title: "News Highlights: Top Financial Services News of the Day - Tuesday at 12 AM ET"
date: "2025-02-11 13:15:00"
summary: "Trump Curbs Enforcement of Antibribery LawThe president has signed an executive order that says the use of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act has hurt American competitiveness.TD Bank to Sell Investment in Charles SchwabToronto-Dominion Bank will exit its investment in Charles Schwab, the Canadian bank's first big move under new CEO..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

**Trump Curbs Enforcement of Antibribery Law**

The president has signed an executive order that says the use of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act has hurt American competitiveness.

**TD Bank to Sell Investment in Charles Schwab**

Toronto-Dominion Bank will exit its investment in Charles Schwab, the Canadian bank's first big move under new CEO Raymond Chun to shore up its business following a costly money-laundering scandal.

**American Express Stock Slips as CFO Says Wall Street Is Too Upbeat**

The company's chief financial officer said growth in the first quarter would be slower than the fourth.

**Man Behind Fake SEC Bitcoin ETF Post Pleads Guilty**

Eric Council Jr., a 25-year-old from Alabama, was arrested in October for his role in the hack of the SEC's X account.

**Wells Fargo Recruits $1.6 Billion Advisor Team From UBS**

The team includes several advisors with decades of experience in the industry.

**Mediobanca Lifts Shareholder Return Target**

The upgrade comes after Mediobanca CEO Alberto Nagel highlighted faster growth at the bank and as the country's banking sector is in the midst of an M&A spree.

**Stock Funds Rose 3.6% to Start Year**

The nonstop news from the White House didn't shake investors in January. Also: A Financial Flashback to 40 years ago, the "Volcker rally" that sent the dollar to a high.

**The U.S. IPO Market Needs Saving. Could Paul Atkins Be the Answer?**

Trump's nominee for SEC chair has been critical of regulatory burdens for public companies.

**Financial Services Roundup: Market Talk**

Find insight on Elliott Management, Meiji Yasuda Life's deal with Legal & General America and more in the latest Market Talks covering financial services.

**Private-Equity Managers Persevere in Pitching First-Time Funds**

Despite a rough environment, a growing pipeline of independent sponsors is expected to launch debut funds in coming years, investors and placement agents say.

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250211000029:0-news-highlights-top-financial-services-news-of-the-day-tuesday-at-12-am-et/)
