---
title: "Energy & Utilities Roundup: Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-13 05:50:00"
summary: "The latest Market Talks covering Energy and Utilities. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires at 4:20 ET, 12:20 ET and 16:50 ET.1505 ET - Oil futures backed off from a three-session rally as U.S. crude inventories posted another large weekly build, President Trump and Russia's Vladimir Putin agree to start..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The latest Market Talks covering Energy and Utilities. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires at 4:20 ET, 12:20 ET and 16:50 ET.

1505 ET - Oil futures backed off from a three-session rally as U.S. crude inventories posted another large weekly build, President Trump and Russia's Vladimir Putin agree to start negotiations toward ending the Russia-Ukraine war, and a pickup in U.S. inflation fueled expectations of the Fed staying on hold for quite some time. The EIA reported a 4.1 million barrel increase in crude stockpiles, along with a first drawdown in gasoline stocks in three months. OPEC, meanwhile, kept its 2025 oil demand growth forecast at 1.45 million barrels a day. WTI settles down 2.7% at $71.37 a barrel and Brent falls 2.4% to $75.19 a barrel. (anthony.harrup@wsj.com)

1415 ET - Oil futures extend losses after President Trump says he had a long phone conversation with Russian President Putin and expressed optimism about bringing the Russia-Ukraine war to an end as the two "agreed to start negotiations immediately." Trump also spoke with Ukrainian President Zelensky. Trump made no mention of U.S. sanctions on Russian oil, although the EIA said this week it doesn't expect the sanctions to significantly affect its 2025 global production forecasts. WTI is off 2.6% at $71.40 a barrel and Brent is down 2.3% at $75.21. (anthony.harrup@wsj.com)

0855 ET - Oil futures are down after an industry group reports a large build in U.S. crude inventories, while OPEC holds its 2025 oil demand growth estimate at 1.45 million barrels a day. The API said crude stocks increased by 9 million barrels last week, analysts note, which follows an 8.7 million barrel build reported for the previous week by the EIA. The EIA's data for last week are due at 10:30 ET. "Crude stock builds are expected in the U.S., but the recent rate of building is more than expected," TP ICAP's Scott Shelton says in a note. "I think that we may see a slowing in the builds in February for the U.S. as exports will be stronger," he adds. WTI is down 1.2% at $72.43 a barrel, and Brent is off 1% at $76.23. (anthony.harrup@wsj.com)

0250 ET - European utilities are likely to be perceived as meaningful losers from a ceasefire between Ukraine and Russia, especially those in the U.K. and Northern Europe, J.P. Morgan analysts say. Investors could infer that Russia would resume selling pipeline gas to Europe again, putting downward pressure on European gas and power prices, they write in a research note. That situation could offer an entry point for equities such as Engie and RWE, they note. The restoration of pipeline flows from Russia might not be immediate or significant because of a number of infrastructure constraints, legal obstacles and numerous pendingarbitration cases between Gazprom and former European counterparts in gas contracts, the analysts say. Enel and Endesa could outperform in the near future because they sell more power than they produce, the analysts add. (cristina.gallardo@wsj.com)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250212014948:0/)
