---
title: "Joby Aviation to Report Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2024 Financial Results"
date: "2025-02-13 07:25:00"
summary: "Joby Aviation to Report Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2024 Financial ResultsSANTA CRUZ, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--February 12, 2025--Joby Aviation, Inc. , a company developing all-electric aircraft for commercial passenger service, today announced that it expects to release its fourth quarter and full year 2024 financial results after market close on Wednesday,..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Joby Aviation to Report Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2024 Financial Results

SANTA CRUZ, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--February 12, 2025--

Joby Aviation, Inc. , a company developing all-electric aircraft for commercial passenger service, today announced that it expects to release its fourth quarter and full year 2024 financial results after market close on Wednesday, February 26, 2025, and to host a webcast at 5:00 pm ET the same day. The webcast will be publicly available in the Upcoming Events section of the company website, www.jobyaviation.com. If unable to attend the webcast, to listen by phone, please dial 1-877-407-9719 or 1-201-378-4906. A replay of the webcast will be available on the company website following the event.

About Joby

Joby Aviation, Inc. is a California-based transportation company developing an all-electric, vertical take-off and landing aircraft which it intends to operate as part of a fast, quiet, and convenient service in cities around the world. To learn more, visit www.jobyaviation.com.

Forward-Looking Statements

This press release contains "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the "safe harbor" provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including but not limited to, statements regarding the development and performance of our aircraft. You can identify forward-looking statements by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. These statements may include words such as "anticipate," "estimate," "expect," "project," "plan," "intend," "believe," "may," "will," "should," "can have," "likely" and other words and terms of similar meaning in connection with any discussion of the timing or nature of future operating or financial performance or other events. All forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially, including: our ability to launch our aerial ridesharing service and the growth of the urban air mobility market generally; our ability to produce aircraft that meet our performance expectations in the volumes and on the timelines that we project, and our ability to launch our service; the competitive environment in which we operate; our future capital needs; our ability to adequately protect and enforce our intellectual property rights; our ability to effectively respond to evolving regulations and standards relating to our aircraft; our reliance on third-party suppliers and service partners; uncertainties related to our estimates of the size of the market for our service and future revenue opportunities; and other important factors discussed in the section titled "Risk Factors" in our Annual Report on Form 10-K, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") on February 27, 2024, our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, filed with the SEC on November 6, 2024, and in future filings and other reports we file with or furnish to the SEC. Any such forward-looking statements represent management's estimates and beliefs as of the date of this presentation. While we may elect to update such forward-looking statements at some point in the future, we disclaim any obligation to do so, even if subsequent events cause our views to change.

View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20250212967847/en/

CONTACT:

Investors:

investors@jobyaviation.com

Media:

press@jobyaviation.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250212016384:0/)
