---
title: "Moncler Posts Higher Revenue Helped by Better Trends in China — Update"
date: "2025-02-14 01:38:00"
summary: "By Andrea FiguerasItaly's Moncler reported better-than-expected revenue for the fourth quarter, aided by improving trends in China at a time when some sector rivals point to a potential rebound in demand for luxury goods.The maker of high-end puffer jackets said Thursday that it made revenue of 1.24 billion euros ($1.29..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Andrea Figueras

Italy's Moncler reported better-than-expected revenue for the fourth quarter, aided by improving trends in China at a time when some sector rivals point to a potential rebound in demand for luxury goods.

The maker of high-end puffer jackets said Thursday that it made revenue of 1.24 billion euros ($1.29 billion) for the final quarter of 2024, up 8% from the prior-year period. The result surpassed a company-provided consensus of 1.16 billion euros.

The company has been a top player in outerwear and apparel and also operates in the luxury section of the growing outdoor sports market, where competition has intensified.

The group is highly exposed to China, a country that was once a money-spinner for luxury companies but which has now become a headache for most brands. The country's economic malaise has led to a downturn in demand for high-end goods, as Chinese shoppers have opted to save money rather than spend it.

Despite wider challenges, Moncler said that its quarterly performance in Asia was boosted by a return to double-digit growth in China, although it noted that the macroeconomic environment continues to hurt consumer confidence in the country.

"As we move into 2025, while the global macroeconomic context remains uncertain, we are confident in our ability to navigate evolving market dynamics," Chairman and Chief Executive Remo Ruffini said.

While analysts believe a recovery in China could take time, the U.S. is seen as a growth engine for the luxury sector this year.

In the fourth quarter, revenues in the Americas climbed 5% on year.

The update from Moncler comes after Swiss jeweler and watchmaker Richemont and U.K. luxury group Burberry posted improvements in U.S. trends, which were seen as a sign of a potential sector rebound after last year's challenges.

Sector bellwether LVMH posted an overall performance that was not as exciting as hoped, but also flagged positive momentum in the country.

Moncler has low exposure to the U.S. and analysts at Barclays believe an expansion there would take time.

In September last year, the Italian group signed a lease for a new flagship store on New York's Fifth Avenue, securing a place on the iconic street and proving its commitment to the U.S. market.

For the year as a whole, the company made earnings before interest and taxes of 916.3 million euros, higher than 893.8 million euros it booked in the prior year and ahead of analysts' projections of 878.1 million euros.

Net profit jumped 5% on year to 639.6 million euros.

Moncler proposed a dividend distribution of 1.30 euros per share.

Write to Andrea Figueras at andrea.figueras@wsj.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250213012789:0/)
