---
title: "Ellington Credit Declares Monthly Common Dividend"
date: "2025-02-11 05:44:00"
summary: "Ellington Credit Declares Monthly Common DividendOLD GREENWICH, Conn.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--February 10, 2025--Ellington Credit Company (\"we\") today announced that its Board of Trustees has declared a monthly common dividend of $0.08 per share, payable on March 25, 2025 to shareholders of record as of February 28, 2025.Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking StatementsThis press..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Ellington Credit Declares Monthly Common Dividend

OLD GREENWICH, Conn.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--February 10, 2025--

Ellington Credit Company ("we") today announced that its Board of Trustees has declared a monthly common dividend of $0.08 per share, payable on March 25, 2025 to shareholders of record as of February 28, 2025.

Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements

This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are not historical in nature and can be identified by words such as "anticipate, " "estimate," "will," "should," "may," "expect," "project," "believe," "intend," "seek," "plan" and similar expressions or their negative forms, or by references to strategy, plans, or intentions. Forward-looking statements are based on our beliefs, assumptions and expectations of our future operations, business strategies, performance, financial condition, liquidity and prospects, taking into account information currently available to us. These beliefs, assumptions, and expectations are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties and can change as a result of many possible events or factors, not all of which are known to us. If a change occurs, our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and strategies may vary materially from those expressed or implied in our forward-looking statements. The following factors are examples of those that could cause actual results to vary from those stated or implied by our forward-looking statements: changes in interest rates and the market value of our investments, market volatility, changes in the default rates on corporate loans, our ability to borrow to finance our assets, changes in government regulations affecting our business, our ability to maintain our exclusion from registration under the Investment Company Act of 1940, our ability to pivot our investment strategy to focus on collateralized loan obligations ("CLOs"), a deterioration in the CLO market, our ability to utilize our net operating loss carryforwards, our ability to convert to a closed end fund/RIC, and other changes in market conditions and economic trends, such as changes to fiscal or monetary policy, heightened inflation, slower growth or recession, and currency fluctuations. Furthermore, as stated above, forward-looking statements are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, including, among other things, those described under Item 1A of our Annual Report on Form 10-K, which can be accessed through the link to our SEC filings under "For Investors" on our website (at www.ellingtoncredit.com) or at the SEC's website (www.sec.gov). Other risks, uncertainties, and factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected or implied may be described from time to time in reports we file with the SEC, including reports on Forms 10-Q, 10-K and 8-K. We undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.

This release and the information contained herein do not constitute an offer of any securities or solicitation of an offer to purchase securities.

About Ellington Credit Company

Ellington Credit Company, formerly known as Ellington Residential Mortgage REIT, was initially formed as a real estate investment trust ("REIT") that invested primarily in residential mortgage-backed securities ("MBS"). On March 29, 2024, the Company's Board of Trustees approved a strategic transformation of its investment strategy to focus on corporate CLOs, with an emphasis on mezzanine debt and equity tranches. In connection with this transformation, the Company revoked its election to be taxed as a REIT effective January 1, 2024, and rebranded to Ellington Credit Company. At a special meeting on January 17, 2025, shareholders approved the Company's conversion to a Delaware registered closed-end fund to be treated as a regulated investment company under the Internal Revenue Code. The Company expects the conversion to be completed on or before April 1, 2025.

Ellington Credit Company is externally managed and advised by Ellington Credit Company Management LLC, an affiliate of Ellington Management Group, L.L.C.

View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20250210226197/en/

CONTACT: Investors:

Ellington Credit Company

Investor Relations

(203) 409-3773

info@ellingtoncredit.com

or

Media:

Amanda Shpiner/Grace Cartwright

Gasthalter & Co.

for Ellington Credit Company

(212) 257-4170

Ellington@gasthalter.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250210011137:0/)
