---
title: "Global Equities Roundup: Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-10 19:45:00"
summary: "The latest Market Talks covering Equities. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.1145 GMT - Balfour Beatty's investment portfolio is an attractive asset, Panmure Liberum analysts Joe Brent and Joe Walker say in a research note. The U.K builder's portfolio has made a net distribution to the company..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The latest Market Talks covering Equities. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.

1145 GMT - Balfour Beatty's investment portfolio is an attractive asset, Panmure Liberum analysts Joe Brent and Joe Walker say in a research note. The U.K builder's portfolio has made a net distribution to the company every year since 2014, the analysts say. The lowest distribution was in 2020, during which no sales occurred due to the coronavirus pandemic, they say. The business should help to underpin distributions to Balfour's shareholders via dividends and share buybacks, they say. News on share buybacks is expected to be announced alongside the full-year results on March 12, they say. Shares trade 0.9% higher at 470 pence. (nina.kienle@wsj.com)

1118 GMT - Porsche's recently issued 2025 outlook implies a significant reset of near-term expectations, with margin guidance of 10%-12% versus consensus at 14.4%, Berenberg analyst Romain Gourvil writes. Although strategic readjustments at the luxury car maker were largely anticipated, related investments seem higher than expected, he adds. "This may add pressure to near-term multiples until Porsche can demonstrate it can sustainably deliver margins of 17%-plus, which is likely now to be heavily discounted by investors." Berenberg lowers its operating profit estimates by around 20% for 2025-26, downgrades its rating to hold from buy and lowers its price target to 62 euros from 75 euros. Shares trade 1.5% higher at 56.38 euros. (dominic.chopping@wsj.com)

1115 GMT - Shares of U.S. steelmakers rise premarket after President Trump said he plans to impose 25% tariffs Monday on steel and aluminum imports. U.S. Steel shares are up 8.3% in premarket trading after closing last week at $36.93. Nucor shares are also up 8.5%, while Steel Dynamics shares are 5.7% higher. Nucor shares closed last week at $130.26 while Steel Dynamics closed at $126.71. President Trump announced plans to introduce 25% tariffs on imports of steel and aluminum, with the levies applying to every nation exporting the metals to the U.S. (pierre.bertrand@wsj.com)

1056 GMT - European luxury companies have a combination of pricing power and high demand that allows them to mitigate the potential impact of U.S. tariffs on EU goods, Vontobel's Markus Hansen says in an interview. Demand for top luxury brands such as Hermes, Richemont's Cartier or Brunello Cucinelli is higher than supply, which enables companies to increase prices if needed, as consumers will continue to buy their products, Hansen says. "Demand is still there even in the hard times, because they've been very careful in terms of crafting the relationship with customers," he says. Furthermore, these brands haven't increased prices as much as competitors in recent years, instead opting for more balanced long-term growth, Hansen adds. (andrea.figueras@wsj.com)

1050 GMT - India's benchmark Sensex extended early declines to end 0.7% lower at 77311.80. Investors are keeping an eye on tariff developments and waiting for U.S. inflation data due later this week for clues on the timing of interest-rate cuts. Among major stocks, Tata Motors dropped 1.5% and Tata Steel was 3.1% lower. Power Grid Corp. of India declined 3.45%. Banks and technology companies were among the few gainers. Kotak Mahindra Bank was 1.2% higher and ICICI Bank added 0.5%. HCL Technologies gained 0.4%. (tracy.qu@wsj.com)

1043 GMT - Nokia's appointment of Intel's head of data-center and artificial-intelligence as its new CEO reflects the company's shift in strategic focus, Inderes analyst Atte Riikola writes. Riikola says Nokia is increasingly focusing on network infrastructure, where data centers and AI investments are creating new growth opportunities. "We see this as a justified direction, as Nokia's longer-term growth prospects for mobile networks clearly look more modest than for network infrastructure." The analyst says the appointment of Justin Hotard once again raises the question of whether there could be structural changes in the core mobile networks business. "On paper, this would be an interesting option, but in practice it would be very challenging to implement." Shares trade 2.2% higher at 4.76 euros. (dominic.chopping@wsj.com)

1017 GMT - U.S. tariffs on steel imports would only have a very limited impact on Thyssenkrupp at present, a spokesman for the company says. Europe is the German industrial and steel group's main market for steel and what the company does export to the U.S. is negligible and mostly concerns high-quality products, the company says. Sales in the U.S. are mainly from Thyssenkrupp's trading business and its automotive supply business, operations which are supported by a significant share of local manufacturing, Thyssenkrupp says. The company adds that much of the production for U.S. customers takes place within the U.S., which minimizes the risks associated with tariffs. Thyssenkrupp says, however, that it is monitoring developments. Shares trade up 0.07% to 4.59 euros. (pierre.bertrand@wsj.com)

0951 GMT - Johnson Matthey's Chairman Patrick Thomas not seeking reelection, and the naming of Richard Pike as CFO designate could be seen as greater willingness, or urgency, to improve the company's financial metrics, Jefferies analysts say. These moves could also provide share price support, they say in a note. The move by the chemicals company comes after a period of enhanced pressure from Standard Investments, its largest shareholder, which has called for greater focus on cash generation and shareholder returns, Jefferies says. Shares are up 1% at 1,436 pence, and are up 7.2% in the year to date.(anthony.orunagoriainoff@dowjones.com)

0939 GMT - Asia's strong economic momentum creates the potential for robust earnings growth for companies in key markets and sectors, including artificial intelligence-related technology in Taiwan and Korea, as well as banking in India, according to analysts at PineBridge Investments. Between Taiwan's and Korea's technology sectors, the analysts "tend to favor" Taiwanese companies, which they view as "more nimble and able to provide AI solutions to their customers", they say. The analysts add that they are "cautiously optimistic and see selective opportunities and continued competitive valuations in China." (tracy.qu@wsj.com)

0937 GMT - Singapore's FTSE Straits Times Index rose 0.4% to close at 3875.13, after hitting a record intraday high of 3921.30 earlier in the session. Gains were supported by the city-state's three major lenders testing record-high share prices. OCBC and UOB closed shy of intraday highs, advancing 0.35% and 1.0%, respectively. DBS Group climbed 1.6% after posting a record annual profit and announcing additional shareholder returns for 2025. Among decliners, Hongkong Land fell 3.7%, Frasers Logistics & Commercial Trust slid 2.3% and Singapore Exchange was 2.1% lower. (kimberley.kao@wsj.com)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250210003386:0/)
