---
title: "Treasury Wine Fails to Find Buyers for Its Budget Brands — Update"
date: "2025-02-13 06:41:00"
summary: "By Stuart CondieSYDNEY--Australia's Treasury Wine Estates admitted defeat in its effort to divest brands including Wolf Blass and Blossom Hill, moderating its annual earnings guidance amid weaker sales of its cheaper products.Last year, Treasury outlined plans to offload its so-called commercial portfolio in a pivot toward costlier, higher-margin brands. As..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Stuart Condie

SYDNEY--Australia's Treasury Wine Estates admitted defeat in its effort to divest brands including Wolf Blass and Blossom Hill, moderating its annual earnings guidance amid weaker sales of its cheaper products.

Last year, Treasury outlined plans to offload its so-called commercial portfolio in a pivot toward costlier, higher-margin brands. As part of the move, it bought California's Frank Family Vineyards in 2021 and Daou Vineyards in 2023 in deals worth US$1.31 billion combined.

On Thursday, Treasury told investors that it had failed to find a buyer for its budget brands.

"TWE has concluded that the offers received for these brands did not represent compelling value and therefore their retention is the best course of action," Treasury said.

The company, which is best known for its prestigious Penfolds brand, said that demand for brands typically retailing for less than US$19 a bottle had fallen by 4.9% in the December-half. That includes the commercial portfolio, which comprises the company's cheapest offerings.

As a result, Treasury expects so-called Ebits--earnings before interest, tax and other impacts including one-off items--for the full fiscal year of 780 million Australian dollars, or about US$489.8 million. That's at the bottom end of its previously issued A$780 million-A$810 million guidance range.

Even so, Treasury on Thursday reported a A$220.9 million net profit for its fiscal first half, up 33% on year as the company continued to re-establish its Penfolds brand in China following that country's removal of tariffs on Australian wine.

Revenue rose by 20% to A$1.57 billion, while profit increased 33% to A$239.6 million once material items and currency moves were stripped out.

The average analyst forecast had been for a net profit of A$242.1 million from revenue of A$1.57 billion, according to data compiled by Visible Alpha. Treasury reported first-half Ebits of A$391.4 million.

The board declared a dividend of 20 Australian cents a share, up from 17 cents a year earlier.

Write to Stuart Condie at stuart.condie@wsj.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250212015935:0/)
