---
title: "Barrick Still Seeking Deal With Mali to Resume Mining Operations, CEO Says"
date: "2025-02-13 03:30:00"
summary: "(19:30 GMT) *Barrick Gold Continuing to Work Toward Settlement With Mali, CEO Says(19:30 GMT) *Barrick Seeking Partnership With Mali That Would Increase State's Share of Economic Benefits, CEO Says(19:30 GMT) Barrick Still Seeking Deal With Mali to Resume Mining Operations, CEO SaysBy Robb M. StewartOTTAWA--Barrick Gold Chief Executive Mark Bristow..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

**(19:30 GMT)** \*Barrick Gold Continuing to Work Toward Settlement With Mali, CEO Says  
**(19:30 GMT)** \*Barrick Seeking Partnership With Mali That Would Increase State's Share of Economic Benefits, CEO Says  
**(19:30 GMT)** Barrick Still Seeking Deal With Mali to Resume Mining Operations, CEO Says

By Robb M. Stewart

OTTAWA--Barrick Gold Chief Executive Mark Bristow said the company is determined to hammer out a deal with Mali's government that would see the country reap more from mining and allow the company's operations there to resume, despite criminal charges that include a warrant for his arrest.

The Canadian miner is intent on settling differences with Mali's government and wants to establish principles for a future partnership with the government, including an increase in the state's share of economic benefits generated by Barrick's Loulo-Gounkoto gold complex, Bristow said.

Mali already owns a 20% interest in Loulo-Gounkoto.

In late September, Barrick and Mali agreed to resolve claims over the Loulo-Gounkoto complex and, in October, the company said it made an $85 million payment to advance negotiations. It also booked a goodwill impairment at Loulo-Gounkoto of $484 million for the recent quarter.

But relations between Barrick and Mali's government have worsened in recent months. At the end of 2024, Mali made demands for payment for various charges, taxes and duties, imprisoned four employees and issued an arrest warrant for Bristow. Barrick in January suspended operations after the government seized gold and removed it to a custodial bank and continued to restrict the company's gold shipments.

Barrick has said the criminal proceedings against it, its officers, directors and employees are meritless. Barrick also has been critical of Mali's efforts to make the Loulo and Gounkoto operations subject to a new mining code adopted in 2023 that increases state and private Malian interests in new projects, which the company said violates stability rights in the conventions.

"We need to find a way where we make sure that the benefits are fairly distributed without compromising the life of the mine," Bristow said in an interview following the release of the company's fourth-quarter financial results. "The mining industry is the very foundation of Mali's economy and without investment.

Speaking to analysts, Bristow said the situation in Mali remained dynamic with the recent dissolution of the government and the appointment of a new prime minister, but the company continued to engage in the hope of reaching a settlement.

Production in the final quarter of 2024 totaled 1.08 million ounces, up 15% from the prior quarter. That took gold output for the year to 3.91 million ounces, down 3.5% from 2023 but in line with Barrick's guidance for annual output toward the lower end of a 3.9 million to 4.3 million ounces target.

The company has forecast attributable gold production of between 3.15 million and 3.5 million ounces this year, excluding output from Loulo-Gounkoto while it is suspended.

Write to Robb M. Stewart at robb.stewart@wsj.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250212011455:0/)
