---
title: "News Highlights: Top Financial Services News of the Day - Monday at 12 AM ET"
date: "2025-02-10 13:15:00"
summary: "Stock Funds Rose 3.6% to Start YearThe nonstop news from the White House didn't shake investors in January. Also: A Financial Flashback to 40 years ago, the \"Volcker rally\" that sent the dollar to a high.The U.S. IPO Market Needs Saving. Could Paul Atkins Be the Answer?Trump's nominee for SEC..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

**Stock Funds Rose 3.6% to Start Year**

The nonstop news from the White House didn't shake investors in January. Also: A Financial Flashback to 40 years ago, the "Volcker rally" that sent the dollar to a high.

**The U.S. IPO Market Needs Saving. Could Paul Atkins Be the Answer?**

Trump's nominee for SEC chair has been critical of regulatory burdens for public companies.

**Private-Equity Managers Persevere in Pitching First-Time Funds**

Despite a rough environment, a growing pipeline of independent sponsors is expected to launch debut funds in coming years, investors and placement agents say.

**State Farm Was All In on California-Until It Pulled the Plug Before the Fires**

The insurer aggressively grew in Los Angeles, despite getting overweight on fire risk, but decided to cut thousands of policies last year, adding to the state's home-insurance crisis.

**Danske Bank Launches $696 Million Buyback as Earnings Top Its Forecast**

The Copenhagen-based bank reported a rise in net profit that beat its expectation, said it is well-positioned for future growth.

**Banco de Sabadell Lifts Shareholder Returns After Earnings Rise**

The bank posted record profit for last year and raised its target for shareholder returns as it seeks to resist a hostile takeover bid from BBVA.

**Legal & General to Sell U.S. Insurance Businesses in $2.3 Billion Deal**

The insurance company expects to return an extra $1.24 billion to shareholders via buybacks upon completion of the sale.

**Financial Services Roundup: Market Talk**

Find insight on Coty, homebuying sentiment, Uber Technologies, and more in the latest Market Talks covering Financial Services.

**Societe Generale Shares Jump After Results Beat Expectations**

The lender posted fourth-quarter results that beat analysts' expectations and has boosted payouts to shareholders.

**ING Hurt by Higher Loan Loss Provisions**

ING Groep net profit fell, missing market forecasts, after it booked loan loss provisions of EUR299 million compared with EUR86 million for the same period a year earlier.

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250210000097:0-news-highlights-top-financial-services-news-of-the-day-monday-at-12-am-et/)
