---
title: "Global Forex and Fixed Income Roundup: Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-10 19:24:00"
summary: "The latest Market Talks covering FX and Fixed Income. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.1124 GMT - An estimate of the neutral interest rate by the European Central Bank, or by any other model, is of questionable value in gauging the degree of policy restriction, BNP Paribas..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The latest Market Talks covering FX and Fixed Income. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.

1124 GMT - An estimate of the neutral interest rate by the European Central Bank, or by any other model, is of questionable value in gauging the degree of policy restriction, BNP Paribas Markets 360 analysts say in a note. The neutral rate is a theoretical rate which neither stimulates nor restricts the economy. It's also uncertain how policymakers think about the neutral rate when it comes to calibrating policy, they say. The ECB announced last week that its economists estimate the neutral rate at between 1.75% and 2.25%. (emese.bartha@wsj.com)

1110 GMT - Yields on euro-denominated and sterling-denominated corporate bonds declined last week, tracking falls in sovereign bond yields after the French budget passed through parliament and the Bank of England cut interest rates by 25 basis points, CreditSights analysts say in a note. Average yields on euro investment-grade bonds fell 5 basis points to 3.1% while average yields on sterling investment-grade bonds declined 6bps to 5.3%, the analysts say. New supply of euro and sterling corporate bonds "showed no signs of slowing down," the analysts say. (miriam.mukuru@wsj.com)

1050 GMT - U.S. President Trump's tariffs are likely to depress the Australian dollar against its Singapore counterpart in 2025, similar to the impact observed in 2018-2019, according to Philip Wee of DBS Group Research. While the U.S. has trade surpluses with both Australia and Singapore, the currencies of the countries aren't immune to the global growth risks posed by Trump's tariffs, the senior forex strategist writes in a note. He expects AUD/SGD to weaken to the 0.80-0.85 range. As a free-floating commodity-led currency, the Australian dollar will be more vulnerable if Trump's universal tariffs negatively impact the global economy and financial markets, fueling risk aversion, he says. Meanwhile, the Singapore dollar is less volatile and "a more attractive currency driven by an exchange rate policy backed by strong fundamentals," Wee adds. (farah.elias@wsj.com)

1045 GMT - U.K. government bonds, or gilts, appear more attractive than U.S. Treasurys on a relative-value basis, TD Securities rates strategist Pooja Kumra says in a note ahead of a syndication of 10-year gilts due this week. "Relative-value wise we see value in holding gilts versus U.S. Treasurys...as a tactical trade." Yields on 10-year gilts have dropped from the multi-decade highs of around 4.90% in mid-January and last trade at 4.463%, Tradeweb data show. "Gilts have outperformed on crossmarket basis," she says. Investors are ready to buy the new 10-year 4.5% gilt at this week's syndication, where GBP10 billion is expected to be sold, Kumra says. (miriam.mukuru@wsj.com)

1034 GMT - Germany's building-materials production could surprise further this year, Stifel analysts Tobias Woerner and Augustin Cendre say in a research note. The production of building materials in Germany was up 7.2% in December and is pointing to a nascent recovery, the analysts say. There is also now a clear volume divergence between Germany and the U.S., with Germany up high-single digits and the U.S down low-single digits in December, the analysts say. This divergence is expected to continue, they say. (nina.kienle@wsj.com)

0957 GMT - The German 10-year Bund yield has room to fall, says Insight Investment's April Larusse. "Core/German bond yields are expected to decline slightly as 10-year yields gravitate toward 2.10%," the head of investment specialists says in a note. Growth in the eurozone is expected to remain soft, although Insight Investment expects some modest improvement in GDP growth from the low base of 2024, to around 1.4% in 2025 and 1.5% in 2026. With inflation continuing to recede slowly, the European Central Bank will carry on with rate cuts, taking the deposit rate to 2% from 2.75% currently. The 10-year Bund yield falls 0.5 basis point to 2.377%, according to Tradeweb. (emese.bartha@wsj.com)

0955 GMT - Asia looks most exposed to Trump's reciprocal trade tariff proposal, Nomura economists write in a note. Trump has said he will announce such tariffs this week and that they would take effect almost immediately. Countries with the largest tariff gap with the U.S., other than China, are India and Thailand, putting them most at risk, the economists write. However, this reciprocal tariff position may be tempered in practice as the U.S. has broad comprehensive free-trade agreements with several major trade partners, Nomura notes. There is a risk of escalation via other forms of tariffs that Trump has suggested, including on steel, aluminum, pharmaceuticals, and could be China and Europe-specific, it adds. (kimberley.kao@wsj.com)

0949 GMT - The euro faces a hit from the prospect of U.S. tariffs and possibly elevated U.S. inflation data this week, ING's Chris Turner says in a note. Trump recently said he would impose tariffs on the EU soon. This could send the euro back towards $1.0225, Turner says. Wednesday's U.S. inflation report is "another negative event risk" for the exchange rate. U.S.-eurozone interest rate differentials widened after Friday's strong U.S. jobs data and should continue to move against the euro. If the euro survives the tariff risk and U.S. inflation data, however, it could rise as the Munich security conference from Friday might unveil more details on the U.S.-proposed Ukraine ceasefire deal. The euro rises 0.3% to $1.0326. (renae.dyer@wsj.com)

0939 GMT - Asia's strong economic momentum creates the potential for robust earnings growth for companies in key markets and sectors, including artificial intelligence-related technology in Taiwan and Korea, as well as banking in India, according to analysts at PineBridge Investments. Between Taiwan's and Korea's technology sectors, the analysts "tend to favor" Taiwanese companies, which they view as "more nimble and able to provide AI solutions to their customers", they say. The analysts add that they are "cautiously optimistic and see selective opportunities and continued competitive valuations in China." (tracy.qu@wsj.com)

0923 GMT - The market is overly concerned about the impact of DeepSeek on AI server demand, at least for this year, Bernstein analysts write in a note. While DeepSeek may be new to investors, its achievement is not a total surprise to companies in the AI industry, they add. The declining training and inference costs in the generative AI sector are crucial for the mass adoption of this technology among consumers and enterprises, as well as for achieving AGI, they say. The recent sentiment correction in the AI supply chain occurred sooner than analysts had expected for 2H25, presenting a buying opportunity for some stocks, Bernstein says. (jiahui.huang@wsj.com; @ivy\_jiahuihuang)

0922 GMT - India's central bank will likely cut rates by 25 bps in April, SMBC economist Ryota Abe says in a note. Estimates point to a continued economic slowdown, and the government and the Reserve Bank of India will likely work together to support the economy with complementary policies, Abe says. The RBI's recent manufacturing sentiment survey showed that 25% of companies surveyed reported shrinking net profit margins for the October-December quarter, up from 19% a year ago. That suggests a persistent manufacturing slowdown and likely contributed to the RBI's lowered GDP growth forecast for this fiscal year, the economist adds. In addition, as inflation stabilizes, real rates will remain high, leaving more room for lowering the nominal policy rate, Abe says. (kimberley.kao@wsj.com)

0905 GMT - European credit is likely to be a good source of income over the coming 12 months, BlackRock's James Turner and Simon Blundell say in a note. As the European Central Bank continues to cut interest rates and deposit rates fall, investors are likely to lower their cash holdings and invest in higher-yielding assets such as credit, BlackRock says. "Investors should look to step out of cash and increase allocations to fixed income to benefit from the higher yields," they say. European issuers remain in good financial health and strong demand for credit assets are likely to drive good performance in the asset class, BlackRock says. (miriam.mukuru@wsj.com)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250210003194:0/)
