---
title: "Nymex Overview: NYMEX Gains Pull Midwest Spot Refined Product Prices Higher in Morning Trade — OPIS"
date: "2025-02-12 00:53:00"
summary: "U.S. Midwest spot refined product prices were higher in late Tuesday morning trading, largely on stronger futures.Group 3 prompt sub-octane gasoline (V-grade) was pegged at a 2.25ct discount to the NYMEX March RBOB contract, 0.5ct narrower than Monday's mean. The implied price was up by 4.23cts to $2.119/gal as of..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

U.S. Midwest spot refined product prices were higher in late Tuesday morning trading, largely on stronger futures.

Group 3 prompt sub-octane gasoline (V-grade) was pegged at a 2.25ct discount to the NYMEX March RBOB contract, 0.5ct narrower than Monday's mean. The implied price was up by 4.23cts to $2.119/gal as of 11:05 a.m. ET. If that holds through the end of trading, it would be the highest value since Oct. 7.

Chicago Comprehensive February Cycle 2 CBOB was gauged at a 8.25ct discount to the March RBOB contract, even with Monday's mean. The implied price was 3.73cts higher at $2.059/gal.

Group 3 ULSD (X-grade) for prompt delivery was put at 23.5ct discount to the NYMEX March ULSD contract, 0.25ct narrower than Monday's close. The implied price was up by 5.24cts to $2.2658/gal.

Group 3 jet fuel (Q-grade) was reported to have traded at a 24 and 22ct discount to the NYMEX March ULSD contract, 2.5ct narrower than Monday's mean.

The implied price was up 7.49cts to $2.2808/gal, the highest price since Jan. 21.

Chicago Comprehensive February Cycle 2 ULSD was put at a 17ct discount to the March ULSD screen, even with Monday's mean and the implied price was up by 4.99cts to $2.3308/gal.

This content was created by Oil Price Information Service, which is operated by Dow Jones & Co. OPIS is run independently from Dow Jones Newswires and The Wall Street Journal.

* Reporting by Jason Titze, jtitze@opisnet.com; Editing by Jeff Barber, jbarber@opisnet.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250211007641:0-nymex-overview-nymex-gains-pull-midwest-spot-refined-product-prices-higher-in-morning-trade-opis/)
