---
title: "KPN Lifts Guidance as Tower Joint Venture Launches"
date: "2025-02-14 14:53:00"
summary: "(06:31 GMT) *KPN Raises 2025 View(06:31 GMT) *KPN Expects 2025 Adjusted Ebitda After Leases of Over EUR2.6B(06:32 GMT) *KPN Sees 2025 Free Cash Flow of EUR920M(06:32 GMT) *KPN Backs 2025 Outlook Group Service Rev Growth of 3%(06:32 GMT) *KPN Net Debt Will Increase by Up to EUR300M(06:33 GMT) *KPN Expects..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

**(06:31 GMT)** \*KPN Raises 2025 View  
**(06:31 GMT)** \*KPN Expects 2025 Adjusted Ebitda After Leases of Over EUR2.6B  
**(06:32 GMT)** \*KPN Sees 2025 Free Cash Flow of EUR920M  
**(06:32 GMT)** \*KPN Backs 2025 Outlook Group Service Rev Growth of 3%  
**(06:32 GMT)** \*KPN Net Debt Will Increase by Up to EUR300M  
**(06:33 GMT)** \*KPN Expects Had Previousl Guided for 2025 Adjusted Ebitda After Leases of EUR2.58B  
**(06:34 GMT)** \*KPN Had Previously Guided for 2025 Free Cash Flow of EUR910M  
**(06:53 GMT)** KPN Lifts Guidance as Tower Joint Venture Launches

By Ian Walker

Royal KPN said its new joint-venture tower company with Dutch pension fund ABP is now operational, and raised its guidance for the year ahead.

The Dutch telecommunications company said Friday that it will hold a 51% share of the new joint venture called Althio, which is part of the company's 'Connect, Activate & Grow' strategy.

As a result of the joint venture, KPN now expects to report adjusted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization after leases--a company preferred metric--of more than 2.60 billion euros ($2.72 billion) and generate free cash flow of 920 million euros. This compares with Ebitdaal guidance of 2.58 billion euros and free cash flow at around 910 million euros as provided on Jan. 30.

The company has backed its guidance for group service revenue growth of 3% and capital expenditure of 1.25 billion euros, but said net debt will increase by up to 300 million euros.

Net debt at Dec. 31 was 5.96 billion euros.

KPN first announced the joint venture on June 5, and it was approved by the Netherlands Authority for Consumers and Markets on Feb. 6.

Write to Ian Walker at ian.walker@wsj.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250214001056:0/)
