---
title: "News Highlights: Top Energy News of the Day - Friday at 12 AM ET"
date: "2025-02-14 13:15:00"
summary: "Oil prices post back-to-back losses on prospect of Russia-Ukraine peace talksOil futures tallied back-to-back session losses on Thursday, a day after President Donald Trump said that he and President Vladimir Putin of Russia had agreed to begin talks on ending the war in Ukraine, which helped to ease some concerns..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

**Oil prices post back-to-back losses on prospect of Russia-Ukraine peace talks**

Oil futures tallied back-to-back session losses on Thursday, a day after President Donald Trump said that he and President Vladimir Putin of Russia had agreed to begin talks on ending the war in Ukraine, which helped to ease some concerns over supply risks.

**IEA Slightly Lifts Oil Demand Outlook, Says Supply Surplus Narrowing**

The International Energy Agency modestly raised its forecast for global oil-demand growth and said improved compliance with output quotas among members of the OPEC+ alliance is reducing a projected supply surplus in the market.

**Chevron to Lay Off Up to 20% of Workers. Why the Oil Industry Is Slimming Down.**

The company's move is "positioning us to accelerate" cash-generation, its vice chairman tells Barron's.

**Energy & Utilities Roundup: Market Talk**

Find insight on U.S. ethanol, Fortis, Keyera, Oiltek International, and more in the latest Market Talks covering Energy and Utilities.

**U.S. Crude Oil Stockpiles Rise For Third Straight Week**

U.S. crude oil inventories increased for a third consecutive week while gasoline stocks declined for the first time in three months, according to data released by the U.S. Energy Information Administration.

**OPEC Sticks to Oil-Demand View, Flags U.S. Trade Policy Risks**

The cartel stuck to its oil-demand forecast after reaffirming plans to gradually hike output from April, but said Trump's trade policy was injecting a dose of uncertainty into markets.

**Siemens Energy Net Profit Falls; Revenue, Order Backlog Rise**

The Munich-based company said net profit fell but revenue rose, as its order backlog continued to increase.

**Berkshire Buys More Occidental Stock. It Now Holds a $12.9 Billion Stake.**

Berkshire likely is losing money on its Occidental stake with Barron's estimating its cost in the low $50s.

**BP Touts 'New Beginning,' Fundamental Change in Strategy**

BP said profit fell more than expected and that it would reset its strategy, days after reports that activist hedge fund Elliott Management is pushing for change at the company.

**Elliott Builds Over $2.5 Billion Stake in Phillips 66**

The activist investor plans to push the oil refiner to consider selling or spinning off its energy-transportation business.

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250214000135:0-news-highlights-top-energy-news-of-the-day-friday-at-12-am-et/)
