---
title: "Strong Storm Threatens Fire-Weary Los Angeles — WSJ"
date: "2025-02-14 01:59:00"
summary: "By Alyssa LukpatA powerful storm closed in on the Los Angeles region Thursday, prompting evacuation warnings as the threat of mudslides loomed over fire-ravaged areas.Places toward the west, including Topanga and Malibu, were under evacuation orders or warnings ahead of possible mudslides or flash floods. The alerts covered thousands of..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Alyssa Lukpat

A powerful storm closed in on the Los Angeles region Thursday, prompting evacuation warnings as the threat of mudslides loomed over fire-ravaged areas.

Places toward the west, including Topanga and Malibu, were under evacuation orders or warnings ahead of possible mudslides or flash floods. The alerts covered thousands of people, according to the Los Angeles Fire Department. Authorities said they could expand the evacuation warnings depending on how the storm develops.

The rain comes weeks after devastating wildfires burned thousands of structures, displaced thousands of residents and killed dozens. The two biggest fires that started last month, the Palisades and Eaton fires, are both fully contained, firefighters said. The wildfires were estimated to be the costliest in U.S. history, causing billions of dollars in economic losses.

Now, weary residents braced for rain, which can cause serious problems after wildfires. Flames scorch vegetation and soil that could have absorbed the water, leaving only debris that can fuse into a raging mudslide, according to the National Weather Service. Even a few minutes of intense rain can cause debris flows, which are fast and unpredictable.

Forecasters said the storm lashing the Los Angeles area Thursday would be the largest of the season so far, following a late-January storm that caused little damage. California's normal rainy season continues through March, with February being the wettest month of the year.

Forecasters said as much as 5 inches of rain could lash the area, coupled with strong winds that could down trees and cause power outages. They warned people to stay off the roads because of the flood risk.

The storm was expected to taper off by Friday, according to the National Weather Service. Rain is also expected to hit other parts of California Thursday, forecasters said.

Heavy rains after a 2018 wildfire triggered a deadly mudslide in Montecito, Calif. Nearly 4 inches of rain fell over two days following a fire that swept through the Santa Ynez mountains above the coastal town. The deluge washed down barren slopes and sent house-sized boulders and debris through neighborhoods, killing nearly two dozen people and destroying 63 homes.

Write to Alyssa Lukpat at alyssa.lukpat@wsj.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250213012901:0/)
