---
title: "News Highlights: Top Company News of the Day - Tuesday at 11 AM ET"
date: "2025-02-12 00:15:00"
summary: "Coca-Cola Stock Rises After Earnings. Here's What Got the Market Excited.Fourth-quarter earnings and revenue at the beverage giant top Wall Street expectations.Travelers Sees $1.7 Billion Pretax Catastrophe Losses From California WildfiresThe devastating wildfires that struck southern California in January could cost the insurance industry overall about $30 billion, according to..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

**Coca-Cola Stock Rises After Earnings. Here's What Got the Market Excited.**

Fourth-quarter earnings and revenue at the beverage giant top Wall Street expectations.

**Travelers Sees $1.7 Billion Pretax Catastrophe Losses From California Wildfires**

The devastating wildfires that struck southern California in January could cost the insurance industry overall about $30 billion, according to analyst estimates.

**Elliott Builds Over $2.5 Billion Stake in Phillips 66**

The activist investor plans to push the oil refiner to consider selling or spinning off its energy-transportation business.

**Shopify Earnings Confused the Market. Why the Stock Is Trading All Over the Place.**

The e-commerce platform beats quarterly estimates for revenue and gross merchandise volume.

**Musk's $97.4 Billion OpenAI Bid Piles Pressure on Sam Altman**

The unsolicited offer for the assets of OpenAI could end up costing CEO Sam Altman, whether he takes it or not.

**DuPont Stock Rises on Strong Earnings and Outlook**

DuPont reports fourth-quarter adjusted earnings per share of $1.13 from sales of $3.1 billion. Wall Street was looking for profit of 98 cents a share and sales of $3.1 billion.

**ArcelorMittal Considers Moving Support Activities to India to Cut Costs**

The Luxembourg-based steelmaker said that it discussed the proposal at a meeting with its European works council, a body representing employees, as part of its efforts to address major issues that the company said threaten the future of steelmaking on the continent.

**Humana says 2025 is critical for margin recovery as quarterly loss widens**

Humana expects to lose another 550,000 Medicare Advantage members this year.

**WK Kellogg's profit crushes estimates but sales fall short in challenging market**

A weaker Canadian dollar hurt sales.

**BP Touts 'New Beginning,' Fundamental Change in Strategy**

BP said profit fell more than expected and that it would reset its strategy, days after reports that activist hedge fund Elliott Management is pushing for change at the company.

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250211007301:0-news-highlights-top-company-news-of-the-day-tuesday-at-11-am-et/)
