---
title: "Trump Steel Tariffs Ramp Up Trade War. How the World Is Reacting. — Barrons.com"
date: "2025-02-11 20:54:00"
summary: "By Callum KeownPresident Donald Trump just made his trade war global and the rest of the world are scrambling to respond.Some wasted little time reacting on Tuesday. The European Union hit back at the U.S. over tariffs, promising countermeasures in response to Trump's 25% import tax on all steel and..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Callum Keown

President Donald Trump just made his trade war global and the rest of the world are scrambling to respond.

Some wasted little time reacting on Tuesday. The European Union hit back at the U.S. over tariffs, promising countermeasures in response to Trump's 25% import tax on all steel and aluminum.

Trump signed executive orders late Monday for the tariffs, which will take effect on March 4 and cover all countries sending metals to the U.S. He also suggested the tariffs could rise further, in a press briefing. "It's a big deal. This is the beginning of making America rich again," he said as he signed the orders. "No exceptions, no nothing," he added.

EU President Ursula von der Leyen said she "deeply regrets" the U.S.'s decision in a statement early Tuesday. "Unjustified tariffs on the EU will not go unanswered--they will trigger firm and proportionate countermeasures," she added.

Canada's prime minister Justin Trudeau described the tariffs as "entirely unjustifiable," and said the country's response will be clear and firm, the Candidan Broadcasting Corporation reported.

The U.K. may be taking a softer, more diplomatic approach. The BBC reported that the U.K. will not retaliate immediately, citing government sources calling for "cool heads" to avoid escalating trade tensions.

As the tariffs are global, more countries are likely to respond — either with countermeasures or statements — in the coming days. Brazil, Mexico, Japan and South Korea are also among the biggest importers of steel to the U.S.

The European Union, Canada and the U.K. highlight three different approaches so far.

China has already revealed its own strategy — swift retaliation. Beijing's countermeasures against Trump's additional 10% levies on Chinese imports went into effect Monday.

Separately, Hong Kong is set to file a complaint with the World Trade Organization, claiming the U.S. has ignored its status as a separate customs territory, Reuters reported Tuesday.

"This is absolutely inconsistent with the WTO rules. Of course, they have totally disregarded Hong Kong is a separate customs territory," Hong Kong's chief secretary Eric Chan told reporters.

Write to Callum Keown at callum.keown@dowjones.com

This content was created by Barron's, which is operated by Dow Jones & Co. Barron's is published independently from Dow Jones Newswires and The Wall Street Journal.

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250211004497:0/)
