---
title: "Trump Administration Halts Funding for Build-out of Highway EV Chargers — WSJ"
date: "2025-02-08 03:03:00"
summary: "By Jennifer HillerThe Trump administration halted federal funding for new electric-vehicle charging stations, throwing a roadblock in front of the build-out of America's highway charging network for battery-powered cars.On Thursday evening, the administration said in a letter to transportation officials that it was suspending approval of state plans for spending..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Jennifer Hiller

The Trump administration halted federal funding for new electric-vehicle charging stations, throwing a roadblock in front of the build-out of America's highway charging network for battery-powered cars.

On Thursday evening, the administration said in a letter to transportation officials that it was suspending approval of state plans for spending about $5 billion in grants to add EV fast chargers along highway exits.

The highway charging money was supposed to help U.S. drivers overcome what is known as "range anxiety" — the fear of running out of battery power while traveling long distances. The charging equipment can repower a battery in around 20 minutes to an hour, depending on the car.

Range anxiety continues to be a major impediment for car buyers considering an electric car, especially if they plan to use it for road trips.

Congress approved the funding as part of the 2021 Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act.

The Biden administration had hoped to speed the use of electricity as fuel to further its ambitions on fighting climate change.

The highway charging program has come under fire from Republicans for a relatively slow rollout, although it is largely up to the states to determine the speed of expansions and grant distributions.

President Trump had previously called out funding for electric-car chargers in a Jan. 20 executive order, in a section called "Terminating the Green New Deal." The order said agencies should pause the disbursement of funding.

The Transportation Department letter says it will issue new program guidance this spring, which would then be open to public comment before final rules are determined. The guidance includes details such as requirements for payment systems, signage, accessibility and equipment reliability.

States oversee the grants, and each state has its own plan for where to locate the new electric-vehicle chargers, but the federal government gives those plans final approval. This extra step of bureaucracy isn't always included in highway funding but was added by the Biden administration.

Around 940 locations have been awarded funding and 56 have completed construction, according to the research and consulting group Atlas Public Policy. Hundreds of locations are in some stage of construction.

"This pause should be as short as possible to minimize the costs of building this infrastructure and preparing our grid for growing demand," said Nick Nigro, founder of Atlas Public Policy. "A considerable delay will add to the lead China has on the U.S. in the race for the future of jobs in energy and transportation."

Several states including Alabama, Idaho, Missouri, Ohio, Oklahoma and Rhode Island have paused their highway charging programs while they wait for more information from the federal government, according to Paren, a software company focused on EV-charging reliability.

Loren McDonald, chief analyst of Paren, questioned the legality of the approval suspension and said it would create "havoc" that would damage smaller companies but not the largest automakers and charging providers that have been building sites.

"It will also hurt public perception by those considering buying an EV, who will now think incorrectly that the U.S. is now not building out charging infrastructure," McDonald said.

Tesla has been among the biggest grant winners, with $41 million in funding for 99 sites, according to Paren. More than half of the awards have gone to highway truck stops and travel centers.

The program has had mixed results. It has installed charging stations at key locations, while implementing others in places nobody wants to stop, said David Fialkov, executive vice president of government affairs for NATSO, the industry group for truck stops and travel centers.

Fialkov said the group plans to work with the administration to share its experience about what has and hasn't been working.

Write to Jennifer Hiller at jennifer.hiller@wsj.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250207009175:0/)
