---
title: "News Highlights: Top Global Markets News of the Day - Sunday at 11 PM ET"
date: "2025-02-10 12:15:00"
summary: "Trump's Next Round of Tariffs-25% on Steel and Aluminum-Won't Be So Easily AvertedReciprocal tariffs on trading partners are also in the mix as officials say \"punitive\" tariffs on Mexico and Canada were only a small slice of trade agenda.Asian Stock Markets Mixed on Trump's Steel, Aluminum Tariff TalkAsian equity markets..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

**Trump's Next Round of Tariffs-25% on Steel and Aluminum-Won't Be So Easily Averted**

Reciprocal tariffs on trading partners are also in the mix as officials say "punitive" tariffs on Mexico and Canada were only a small slice of trade agenda.

**Asian Stock Markets Mixed on Trump's Steel, Aluminum Tariff Talk**

Asian equity markets were mixed while most base metal prices rose as investors and traders weighed President Trump's pledge to impose 25% tariff on steel and aluminum imports.

**Stock futures reverse early losses as Trump to announce 25% tariffs on steel, aluminum imports**

President Donald Trump said Sunday he will announce 25% tariffs against all steel and aluminum imports into the U.S. on Monday.

**China's Strategy in Trade War: Threaten U.S. Tech Companies**

Officials in Beijing are building a list of potential targets for antitrust probes, hoping to influence tech executives close to Trump.

**For CEOs and Bankers, the Trump Euphoria Is Fading Fast**

Deals market gets curtailed by the uncertainty delivered in the president's first weeks.

**Vance, Musk Criticize Federal Judge for Blocking DOGE From Treasury System**

The broadside against the court order signals tensions ahead between the White House and the judiciary.

**China's Consumer Inflation Accelerated in January**

China's consumer inflation accelerated in January as food and service prices climbed ahead of the Lunar New Year holiday, official data showed Sunday.

**A Rothschild Who Crusaded for Kinder Capitalism Adjusts to the Trump Era**

Lynn Forester de Rothschild said that ESG investing to push companies to treat the environment and workers better is no longer the right approach.

**Stock Funds Rose 3.6% to Start Year**

The nonstop news from the White House didn't shake investors in January. Also: A Financial Flashback to 40 years ago, the "Volcker rally" that sent the dollar to a high.

**The bond market just sent a message about Trump's second term. Stock investors should listen.**

Calm in bonds suggests it's time to pencil in stocks you like - but wait for market-moving headlines from Washington.

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250209001493:0-news-highlights-top-global-markets-news-of-the-day-sunday-at-11-pm-et/)
