---
title: "Fox Had a Plan for Ads if the Super Bowl Went Into Overtime"
date: "2025-02-10 10:38:00"
summary: "By Megan GrahamOvertime is looking unlikely at this point, but Fox had been ready to pounce if the game had gone into extra time and generated an ad windfall.Advertisers had already spoken for much of the ad time in a hypothetical overtime ahead of the game, but not all of..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Megan Graham

Overtime is looking unlikely at this point, but Fox had been ready to pounce if the game had gone into extra time and generated an ad windfall.

Advertisers had already spoken for much of the ad time in a hypothetical overtime ahead of the game, but not all of it, according to Fox.

"We sell out overtime as best we can, but we always leave one or two units unsold," said Mark Evans, executive vice president of Fox Sports ad sales.

"Should a game look like it could go to overtime or it's tied late in the fourth quarter, there's literally a bidding war for those last one or two spots, and it's theater like you can't imagine," he said.

Evans said the network has ad sales people around the stadium seated with major clients, while he sits in the suite with the biggest clients.

"It's the game within the game, and we love that excitement," Evans added.

Thirty seconds of ad time in Super Bowl LIX has cost buyers on average more than $7 million, although prices can vary based on factors including how many spots companies buy, and some units fetched $8 million.

Last year's Super Bowl was only the second ever to go to overtime.

This item is part of a Wall Street Journal live coverage event. The full stream can be found by searching P/WSJL (WSJ Live Coverage).

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250209001287:0/)
