---
title: "Australia's Temple & Webster Eyes Potential Tariff Boost — Interview"
date: "2025-02-13 10:03:00"
summary: "By Stuart CondieSYDNEY--U.S. trade tariffs could help Australia's Temple &amp; Webster secure better pricing from its suppliers in China, the furniture retailer's chief executive said.Temple &amp; Webster, an online-only retailer that sources much of its goods from factories in China, has yet to detect any impact from the 10% tariff..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Stuart Condie

SYDNEY--U.S. trade tariffs could help Australia's Temple & Webster secure better pricing from its suppliers in China, the furniture retailer's chief executive said.

Temple & Webster, an online-only retailer that sources much of its goods from factories in China, has yet to detect any impact from the 10% tariff that the U.S. imposed last week on Chinese goods.

That could change if the U.S. decides to bring the tariff rate closer to the 25% rate imposed by the first Trump administration, CEO Mark Coulter said Thursday. Temple & Webster was able to negotiate better prices under that regime, he added.

"If volume slows to the U.S. because of tariffs in the U.S., historically that has actually meant we've got better prices. If the tariffs go up, it could be a positive," Coulter said.

The U.S. began imposing tariffs on China in early 2018, initially on solar panels and washing machines, before covering other goods.

Temple & Webster's gross margin, which was already expanding as revenue grew, surged to 45.3% in the 12 months through June 2019, from 32.1% a year earlier.

The company on Thursday reported December-half revenue of 313.7 million Australian dollars, or about US$197.0 million. That was up 24% from the prior year, and more than three times its fiscal 2019 total.

Temple & Webster said it had a 2.9% share of Australia's furniture and homeware market at the end of 2024.

Home-improvement sales grew 41%, making it the fastest-growing part of the business. It is enjoying particular success with bathroom fittings, Coulter said.

Temple & Webster plans to eventually expand its offerings to include third-party installation services, albeit not for at least 12 months.

Coulter said that Temple & Webster had received approaches from platforms offering to partner on installation, but that such a move would most likely occur when the company grows sales of harder-to-fit items such as flooring and tiling.

"We definitely want the Temple & Webster proposition to be a full-service, one-stop shop. We're not ready yet."

Write to Stuart Condie at stuart.condie@wsj.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250212017027:0/)
