---
title: "Trump Layoffs Hit Federal Workers With Less Than a Year on Job — WSJ"
date: "2025-02-14 10:30:00"
summary: "By Scott Patterson, Lindsay Ellis and Sadie GurmanThe Trump administration on Thursday stepped up the firing of federal workers who have been on the job for less than a year , the next phase of its personnel cuts that could affect hundreds of thousands of people.It wasn't immediately clear how..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Scott Patterson, Lindsay Ellis and Sadie Gurman

The Trump administration on Thursday stepped up the firing of federal workers who have been on the job for less than a year , the next phase of its personnel cuts that could affect hundreds of thousands of people.

It wasn't immediately clear how many workers in probationary periods — who have served less than one year, or less than two years for "excepted service" — were fired on Thursday. More than 200,000 employees, or nearly 10% of the civilian federal workforce, have been on the job for a year or less, according to Office of Personnel Management data.

Probationary workers in departments and agencies including the U.S. Forest Service, the Energy Department and OPM were pushed out on Thursday, according to federal worker union staff and people familiar with the matter. Others were dismissed earlier this week. Agencies across the federal government submitted lists of their probationary employees in January, and in a memo, OPM directed them to determine whether those employees should be retained.

The Trump administration in recent days urged agencies to classify probation periods as a continuation of the job-application process, not an entitlement for permanent employment, according to a person familiar with the communications. Rather than target probationary employees as a group, agencies have been directed in meetings with OPM officials to focus on "low-performing" newly hired federal workers, the person said.

About 3,400 Forest Service employees and 2,000 Energy Department staffers were laid off on Thursday, said Randy Erwin, national president of the National Federation of Federal Employees. Some probationary employees at Treasury and the General Services Administration have also already been cut, a person familiar with the matter said.

"This administration has abused the probationary period to conduct a politically driven mass firing spree, targeting employees not because of performance, but because they were hired before Trump took office," said Everett Kelley, national president of the American Federation of Government Employees, in a written statement.

He added that the firings weren't because of performance, and workers didn't have due process.

At roughly 2 p.m. at OPM, probationary workers in the agency's Washington, D.C., headquarters gathered for a meeting, according to a person familiar with the meeting. An employee asked whether they could include a union representative in the meeting, but was told by a person in the meeting that no union personnel were allowed on the call. About 30 minutes later, a prerecorded video informed them that they were being terminated as of 3 p.m.

"I know that this is not the outcome that you had hoped for, but I encourage you to use this as an opportunity for your next step forward," the video said, according to a recording heard by The Wall Street Journal.

"The agency finds, based on your performance, that you have not demonstrated that your further employment at the Agency would be in the public interest," a probationary OPM employee was notified in an email, viewed by the Journal. Hundreds of probationary employees could be affected by the layoffs, which included workers in the agency's communications department, according to people familiar with the matter.

"Agencies are taking independent action in light of the recent hiring freeze and in support of the president's broader efforts to restructure and streamline the federal government to better serve the American people at the highest possible standard," an OPM spokeswoman said.

Several probationary workers told the Journal that they decided to resign through the buyout offer put forward by OPM because they believed they would otherwise be targeted for future cuts because of their probationary status. Though they were skeptical of the resignation program, they said they proceeded because they expected a job loss either way.

Elizabeth Aniskevich, 39 years old, joined the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau as a senior litigation counsel for enforcement in June after long being interested in related cases. Late Tuesday, she got an email notifying her that she was being removed from her position. At least 70 probationary employees received similar notices, Aniskevich said. The CFPB didn't immediately respond to a request for comment.

"I felt like I was just doing work that mattered so much," she said. "It's really unfortunate that in one day it can be ripped out from under me for what I believe are quite pretextual reasons."

National Park Service officials have submitted lists of probationary employees for consideration of whether they should be reassigned or employed at all. Lawmakers in Illinois on Tuesday urged the Environmental Protection Agency to reconsider plans to terminate more than 1,100 probationary employees. The EPA said Thursday that no mass terminations of probationary employees have taken place so far.

The Federal Bureau of Investigation has gathered a list of roughly 3,600 probationary employees across the U.S., including more than 1,000 special agents and 2,600 analysts and other professional staffers. The list represents about 10% of the workforce, said Natalie Bara, head of the FBI Agents Association.

Bara said it takes months or longer to hire an FBI agent, and all of the special agents on probation have undergone extensive training. Replacing them would require significant time and resources to recruit and train new personnel, and would be a waste of already-invested resources, she said.

Losing that many employees "would be devastating to the bureau. It would be a threat to national security," Bara said.

Write to Scott Patterson at scott.patterson@wsj.com, Lindsay Ellis at lindsay.ellis@wsj.com and Sadie Gurman at sadie.gurman@wsj.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250213018216:0/)
