---
title: "Siemens Energy Plans Further Job Cuts at Wind-Turbine Business"
date: "2025-02-13 00:08:00"
summary: "(16:06 GMT) *Siemens Energy to Cut R&amp;D Staff in Turkey, Company Says(16:07 GMT) *Siemens Energy Negotiating Further Job Cuts Globally, Source Says(16:07 GMT) *Siemens Energy to Cut 130 Employees in Spain Over Next Two Years(16:07 GMT) *Siemens Energy Continues to Seek Cost Savings at Gamesa Operations(16:08 GMT) Siemens Energy Plans..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

**(16:06 GMT)** \*Siemens Energy to Cut R&D Staff in Turkey, Company Says  
**(16:07 GMT)** \*Siemens Energy Negotiating Further Job Cuts Globally, Source Says  
**(16:07 GMT)** \*Siemens Energy to Cut 130 Employees in Spain Over Next Two Years  
**(16:07 GMT)** \*Siemens Energy Continues to Seek Cost Savings at Gamesa Operations  
**(16:08 GMT)** Siemens Energy Plans Further Job Cuts at Wind-Turbine Business

By Helena Smolak

Siemens Energy is cutting staff in Turkey and Spain, a spokesman said, as the group seeks to cut costs at its loss-making wind-turbine business Siemens Gamesa.

The German energy-equipment maker plans to lay off 130 employees in Spain and about 60 of 100 employees at a research-and-development facility in Turkey, according to a spokesman for the company. The move comes ahead of potential further cuts that could number in the thousands, which are still being negotiated, a person familiar with the matter said.

The company said Wednesday that it reached agreements with employee representatives in Germany and Spain and that it was on track to deliver targeted cost savings from the integration of Gamesa. It didn't specify details of those agreements.

Last May, Siemens Energy outlined a restructuring for Gamesa including capacity cuts for onshore wind, saying this would result in job losses without providing numbers.

Spanish union Comisiones Obreras said in December that Siemens Energy would lay off 255 people in the country, down from an original plan that would have affected 423 employees.

Siemens Energy is seeking to capitalize on rising electricity demand as the energy transition picks up pace and artificial intelligence demand grows, but losses at Gamesa have weighed on results since it took full control of the business in 2023.

The division, which has been grappling with quality issues in its onshore wind business and higher costs, reported an adjusted loss of 347 million euros ($359.6 million) for the quarter to December despite an 18% rise in revenue. The loss narrowed compared with a loss of 424 million euros in the year-earlier period.

Siemens Energy expects Gamesa to break even in 2026 and return to profitability afterward.

- Adam Whittaker contributed to this article.

Write to Helena Smolak at helena.smolak@wsj.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250212009793:0/)
