---
title: "Investing Platform Webull Launches Event Contracts — WSJ"
date: "2025-02-13 02:45:00"
summary: "By Hannah Erin LangAnother brokerage is giving investors the option to bet on future events via prediction markets.The trading app Webull is partnering with prediction-market startup Kalshi to offer event contracts to customers through the Webull platform, the companies said Wednesday. Customers will be able to place a wager as..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Hannah Erin Lang

Another brokerage is giving investors the option to bet on future events via prediction markets.

The trading app Webull is partnering with prediction-market startup Kalshi to offer event contracts to customers through the Webull platform, the companies said Wednesday. Customers will be able to place a wager as small as a dollar or two on yes-or-no positions on "a range of economic events."

Webull is still firming up the details on exactly what kinds of event contracts will be offered and when the contracts will start rolling out to customers. On Kalshi, users can bet on everything from sports championships to whether or not Federal Reserve Chair Jerome Powell would say "good afternoon" at a press conference.

"We want to make sure that regulators feel comfortable that we're offering this product out to the right customers for the right reasons," said Anthony Denier, group president and U.S. CEO at Webull. "This is a product that is going to be so much bigger than it is right now in two years' time."

The move follows similar forays into prediction markets from other brokerages. Last summer, Interactive Brokers launched contracts on economic and climate events. Robinhood rolled out presidential election betting last fall, and planned to launch contracts on who would win the Super Bowl before regulators balked.

Webull, which has more than 20 million users worldwide, has faced scrutiny in the U.S. over its ties to China, which some American officials say poses security and privacy risks.

A spokeswoman for Webull said the company "is a U.S. broker-dealer registered with the SEC and FINRA. We remain committed to maintain transparency with customers and regulators and are cooperating to address any concerns."

This item is part of a Wall Street Journal live coverage event. The full stream can be found by searching P/WSJL (WSJ Live Coverage).

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250212011303:0/)
