---
title: "How Republicans calling for smaller government could use the Fed's balance sheet to wield more power"
date: "2025-02-14 10:04:00"
summary: "By Joy WiltermuthThe hole in the Federal Reserve's balance sheet is getting some attention from lawmakersThe Federal Reserve's large pile of paper losses isn't going away anytime soon, especially with inflation concerns back on the radar and investors openly wondering if further rate cuts are even necessary.That backdrop alone might..."
categories:
  - "MarketWatch"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "MarketWatch"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Joy Wiltermuth

The hole in the Federal Reserve's balance sheet is getting some attention from lawmakers

The Federal Reserve's large pile of paper losses isn't going away anytime soon, especially with inflation concerns back on the radar and investors openly wondering if further rate cuts are even necessary.

That backdrop alone might give Fed Chair Jerome Powell reason to expect more questions about the status of trillions of dollars in low-coupon bonds that have been sitting on the central bank's balance sheet since the pandemic.

But with the Republican-controlled Congress and White House focused on slashing the government and extending President Donald Trump's 2017 tax cuts, losses at the Fed now risk being used as a cudgel for wielding power in Washington.

U.S. Sen Katie Britt, a Republican from Alabama, asked Powell during his congressional testimony this week about large and ongoing "mark-to-market" losses on the Fed's balance sheet.

The Fed's most recent quarterly report showed cumulative "unrealized losses" of about $818 billion on its holdings of Treasurys and agency mortgage-backed securities through Sept. 30, 2024.

Britt, who is a critic of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, the roughly 15-year-old agency focused on protecting consumers from financial fraud, was the only senator this week to ask Powell why the Fed transferred payments to the CFPB despite the central bank having no current earnings.

Democrats took a novel approach when setting up the CFPB by using money from the Fed. By law, the Fed must transfer funds to the agency when they are requested by the CFPB director. It's a system Republicans have long hoped to end, and Britt co-authored legislation in 2023 to halt these transfers if the Fed is operating at a loss.

Since Trump took office in January, officials he appointed have declined to request quarterly funding for the CFPB from the Fed. In early February, the administration ordered the agency to stop its work.

Read: What eliminating the nation's top consumer watchdog means for home buyers and renters. 'It's open season.'

The Fed's balance sheet

Trump's second term commenced with a major push to shrink the size of the federal government and its workforce.

Trump put billionaire and Tesla Inc. (TSLA) chief executive Elon Musk in charge of the entity known as the Department of Government Efficiency, or DOGE, to quickly carry out those cuts.

Powell has repeatedly vowed to keep the Fed independent of political pressures, saying that he won't step down if asked to by Trump. Powell has also said he plans to serve out his own second term, which ends in May 2026.

Powell is helming the Fed at a precarious time. While the central bank remitted $920 billion in income from its crisis-era bond portfolio to the Treasury Department between 2011 and 2021, monthly remittances turned negative in September 2022.

Its operating losses have resulted in a "deferred credit" - a sort of IOU - at the Treasury, a situation once viewed as both "unlikely" and an "extreme case" by the Fed's own researchers.

The Fed has been cheered for using its balance sheet to shore up the economy and markets during periods of crisis, and it has also been criticized for going too far - stoking inflation that hurt households and provoking excess risk taking on Wall Street.

The Fed's balance sheet ballooned following the start of the COVID-19 pandemic in 2020 as the central bank raced to calm Wall Street by buying up bonds in bulk. It was a repeat of its response to the 2007-08 global financial crisis.

Both times, the Fed's balance grew in size, reaching a peak of almost $9 trillion in 2022, but the second period of asset purchases consisted mostly of lower-coupon, longer-duration bonds that plunged in value as interest rates rose.

Those were the same types of securities at the heart of the collapse of Silicon Valley Bank in 2023.

Luke Tilley, chief economist at Wilmington Trust, said that unlike at a regular bank, at the Fed, "losses" from its holdings don't matter in terms of the central bank's viability, or ability to keep operating.

"The Fed owns a lot of long-dated securities, and as interest rates go up, the market value of those securities goes down," Tilley said. Barring any reason for the Fed to sell those assets, the expectation would be that they are held to maturity, resulting in full repayment.

That way, the Fed wouldn't incur any financial losses on those assets and investors wouldn't need to fear the potential ramifications of those securities being suddenly dumped onto the market, said Tilley, who is a former officer and economic adviser with the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia.

The Fed's quarterly accounting of its "unrealized losses" helps provide transparency to the public and to Wall Street about what similar assets could be worth on the open market. Rather than viewing such losses in a negative light, some argue that policy makers should consider the benefits of the Fed's emergency actions in terms of blunting recessions and job losses, even if they take a toll on the central bank's balance sheet.

Higher rates hurt

While the Fed isn't expected to be a forced seller of its underwater securities, it already has reported record negative income by paying out more than it was taking in from interest on its security holdings.

Ali Meli, founder and chief investment officer at Monachil Capital Partners, has been closely monitoring the Fed's asset holdings. He argues that in addition to unrealized losses, the Fed's operating losses will only get worse if it keeps interest rates higher for longer.

"The Fed, itself, is not being transparent about their losses," Meli said Tuesday. By tracking various Fed disclosures, he pegged its current accrued losses at about $210 billion and mark-to-market losses around $800 billion to $1 trillion.

"In a high-interest-rate environment, every quarter, the unrealized losses will convert to realized losses and eat up their balance sheet," he said.

Such actual losses won't make the Fed insolvent, but they could be a black eye with potential political implications for the Fed, potentially testing the central bank's independence or resulting in legislation that limits its ability to respond to a future crisis.

-Joy Wiltermuth

This content was created by MarketWatch, which is operated by Dow Jones & Co. MarketWatch is published independently from Dow Jones Newswires and The Wall Street Journal.

[MarketWatch](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_SN20250213013277:0/)
