---
title: "Ryder Declares Quarterly Cash Dividend"
date: "2025-02-08 05:30:00"
summary: "Ryder Declares Quarterly Cash DividendCompany Pays Dividend for 194th Consecutive QuarterMIAMI--(BUSINESS WIRE)--February 07, 2025--The Board of Directors of Ryder System, Inc. declared a regular quarterly cash dividend of $0.81 per share of common stock to be paid on March 21, 2025, to shareholders of record on February 18, 2025.This is..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Ryder Declares Quarterly Cash Dividend

Company Pays Dividend for 194th Consecutive Quarter

MIAMI--(BUSINESS WIRE)--February 07, 2025--

The Board of Directors of Ryder System, Inc. declared a regular quarterly cash dividend of $0.81 per share of common stock to be paid on March 21, 2025, to shareholders of record on February 18, 2025.

This is Ryder's 194th consecutive quarterly cash dividend — marking more than 48 years of uninterrupted dividend payments.

About Ryder System, Inc.

Ryder System, Inc. is a fully integrated port-to-door logistics and transportation company. It provides supply chain, dedicated transportation, and fleet management solutions, including warehousing and distribution, contract manufacturing and packaging, e-commerce fulfillment, last-mile delivery, managed transportation, professional drivers, freight brokerage, nearshoring solutions, full-service leasing, maintenance, commercial truck rental, and used vehicle sales to some of the world's most-recognized brands. Ryder provides services throughout the United States, Mexico, and Canada. In addition, Ryder manages nearly 250,000 commercial vehicles, services fleets at 760 maintenance locations, and operates nearly 300 warehouses encompassing more than 100 million square feet. Ryder is regularly recognized for its industry-leading practices; technology-driven innovations; corporate responsibility; environmental management; safety, health and security programs; military veteran recruitment initiatives; and the hiring of a diverse workforce. www.ryder.com

Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements: Certain statements and information included in this news release are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Federal Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements are based on our current plans and expectations and are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions. Accordingly, these forward-looking statements should be evaluated with consideration given to the many risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results and events to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements including those risks set forth in our periodic filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. New risks emerge from time to time. It is not possible for management to predict all such risk factors or to assess the impact of such risks on our business. Accordingly, we undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.

ryder-financial

View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20250207841760/en/

CONTACT: Jonathan Mayor, jonathan\_c\_mayor@ryder.com

Amy Federman, afederman@ryder.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250207010506:0/)
