---
title: "News Highlights: Top Company News of the Day - Wednesday at 7 PM ET"
date: "2025-02-13 08:15:00"
summary: "Cisco Systems Raises FY25 Outlook as Profit, Sales Beat EstimatesCEO Chuck Robbins said the company is positioned to capitalize on demand for artificial intelligence.Musk's X Agrees to Pay About $10 Million to Settle Trump LawsuitThe platform becomes the second social-media company to settle with Trump after Jan. 6, 2021, riot..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

**Cisco Systems Raises FY25 Outlook as Profit, Sales Beat Estimates**

CEO Chuck Robbins said the company is positioned to capitalize on demand for artificial intelligence.

**Musk's X Agrees to Pay About $10 Million to Settle Trump Lawsuit**

The platform becomes the second social-media company to settle with Trump after Jan. 6, 2021, riot triggered bans.

**BuzzFeed to Cut About 5% of Workforce**

BuzzFeed expects to reduce about 5% of its workforce, seeking to streamline its HuffPost news operations.

**Robinhood Stock Jumps as Earnings Blow Past Forecasts**

Robinhood benefited from a surge in investor activity as customers piled into stocks and cryptocurrencies.

**Reddit turns second quarterly profit since IPO but shares slide on user-growth miss**

Reddit Inc. turned its second quarterly profit since becoming a public company, but shares fell after daily active unique users - which topped 100 million for the first time - fell short of expectations.

**Applovin Revenue Surges on Advertising Business**

The company, which owns "Matchington Mansion" and "Game of War," said it's looking to close the sale of its mobile gaming division in the second quarter.

**Kroger Names PepsiCo Veteran as Chief Financial Officer**

David Kennerley, CFO of PepsiCo Europe, will become the supermarket operator's finance chief in early April.

**FCC set to investigate media giant Comcast over diversity commitments and says it could shut down DEI programs elsewhere**

Comcast says it 'will be cooperating with the FCC to answer their questions'

**Chevron to Lay Off Up to 20% of Workers. Why the Oil Industry Is Slimming Down.**

The company's move is "positioning us to accelerate" cash-generation, its vice chairman tells Barron's.

**Zillow's Rentals Business Buoys Prospects, Even as Outlook Hits Shares**

Zillow's outlook has taken a hit from a persistently challenging housing market, but its longer-term prospects remain promising, in part thanks to an expanding rentals business, analysts say.

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250212016697:0-news-highlights-top-company-news-of-the-day-wednesday-at-7-pm-et/)
