---
title: "Energy & Utilities Roundup: Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-11 05:50:00"
summary: "The latest Market Talks covering Energy and Utilities. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires at 4:20 ET, 12:20 ET and 16:50 ET.1526 ET - Crude futures gain ground after falling for three straight weeks as markets shrug off President Trump's announcement of tariffs on steel and aluminum imports into the..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The latest Market Talks covering Energy and Utilities. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires at 4:20 ET, 12:20 ET and 16:50 ET.

1526 ET - Crude futures gain ground after falling for three straight weeks as markets shrug off President Trump's announcement of tariffs on steel and aluminum imports into the U.S., while disputes between Israel and Hamas over their cease-fire agreement rekindles some of the geopolitical risk premium recently absent from the market. Israel's declaring Hamas in violation of the ceasefire for postponing the next planned hostage release added to oil's gains, says Mizuho's Robert Yawger. He notes that the rally comes amid builds in U.S. crude stocks as refineries slow down for maintenance, "generally the softest time of the year for energy demand." WTI settles up 1.9% at $72.32 a barrel, and Brent rises 1.6% to $75.87. (anthony.harrup@wsj.com)

1014 ET - Hydro One's rich valuation keeps BofA Securities bearish on the stock, despite praise for the Canadian power company. BofA reinstates coverage with an underperform call and C$44 price target, noting the current valuation premium based on expected 2026 EPS is 47% higher than the next-highest premium of the companies it covers. It says catalysts for any multiple expansion from here are further-dated than its 12-month price objective. Still, BofA argues Hydro One is well run and has among the strongest earnings and rate base growth visibility in the sector. Shares now down 0.6% at C$45.29. (robb.stewart@wsj.com)

0857 ET - Oil futures start the week higher after three consecutive weeks of losses as the U.S. plans to place tariffs on all steel and aluminum imports while Chinese retaliatory tariffs on U.S. oil and gas go into effect. The steel and aluminum tariffs "are apparently supportive to oil, dollar, equities, etc.," Ritterbusch says in a note. "Geopolitical premium that had supported oil values across last year have now been replaced by a tariff premium that will remain elevated for at least another three weeks until a White House decision is made regarding hefty tariffs on Canada and Mexico that will directly impact the flow of crude into the U.S.," the firm adds. WTI is up 1.3% at $71.91 a barrel, and Brent is up 1.2% at $75.56 a barrel. (anthony.harrup@wsj.com)

0854 ET - Elliott Management hasn't made a hostile approach to the BP board and will seek a more "suggestivist" approach to get its ideas across, AJ Bell investment director Russ Mould writes. Elliott is reportedly seeking better shareholder value but it is hard to see how it can campaign for higher dividends or share buybacks, he writes. In 2024, BP delivered $5 billion in dividends and ran share buybacks worth $7.3 billion, he says. Elliott might want BP to refocus its strategy on oil-and-gas production, better allocate capex, or shift its listing to the U.S., Mould says. Shares trade up 7.3% at 464.65 pence. (adam.whittaker@wsj.com)

0344 ET - Elliott Management could force BP to reorganize its business and make changes to its board after it was reported the hedge fund has built a stake in the British energy giant, Jefferies analysts Giacomo Romeo and Kai Ye Loh write. Elliott could look to remove BP Chairman Helge Lund at the next AGM in late April or early May, the analysts write. Increasing shareholder returns by maximizing free-cash-flow generation via reduced capex and increased divestments would be a key goal, they add. It may also seek to refocus BP's strategy on traditional oil and gas activities and reduce exposure to low-carbon assets, they add. Shares trade up 7.4% at 465 pence. This is BP's best one-day rise since summer 2023. (adam.whittaker@wsj.com)

0118 ET - BP's underperforming shares should be boosted by the introduction of a serious activist investor, RBC Capital Markets analysts Biraj Borkhataria and Adnan Dhanani write. Over the weekend, there were unconfirmed reports that Elliott Management has built a significant stake in the British energy company. Any activist investor is likely to call for a change in chairperson and might put pressure on BP to spin off some divisions, the analysts write. Its U.S. shale division, which is worth around $20 billion, its $10 billion lubricants division, and its marketing and retail business, valued at up to $40 billion, are potential target areas, the analyst write. BP's shares closed Friday at 433.25 pence and are down 9.45% over the past 12 months. (adam.whittaker@wsj.com)

1909 ET - Oil edges higher in the early Asian session. Last week, the U.S. imposed sanctions on an international network facilitating the shipment of Iranian crude to China to increase pressure on the Middle Eastern country. The sanctions could offer short-term support by limiting Iranian oil availability, says Hamza Zraimek, CEO of IGOUDAR in an email. However, broader worries over global supply and demand dynamics continue, Zraimek adds. Front-month WTI crude oil futures are up 0.3% at $71.19/bbl; front-month Brent crude oil futures are 0.25% higher at $74.85/bbl. (ronnie.harui@wsj.com)

1705 ET - Jefferies doesn't expect AGL Energy's 1H result to be as strong as last year and investors should be OK with that. It forecasts 1H Ebitda of A$937 million, down from A$1.07 billion a year ago, because realized electricity prices eased over the period. Net profit also likely declined to A$270 million, says Jefferies, acknowledging that consensus hopes are some 12% higher than that. "However, the current pricing stability remains attractive, with the increased benefit from the increased flexibility of coal generators," analyst Anthony Moulder says. "With forward wholesale electricity prices remaining elevated for FY 2026, and with earnings and cash flows remaining supportive for further investment in grid connected batteries, AGL remains well-positioned." (david.winning@wsj.com; @dwinningWSJ)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250210011301:0/)
