---
title: "Global Equities Roundup: Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-11 09:50:00"
summary: "The latest Market Talks covering Equities. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.2050 ET - Chinese shares are down, reversing slight gains at the open. Investors are cautious after President Trump imposed 25% tariffs on steel and aluminum imports, heightening the trade war. Software and consumer stocks are..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The latest Market Talks covering Equities. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.

2050 ET - Chinese shares are down, reversing slight gains at the open. Investors are cautious after President Trump imposed 25% tariffs on steel and aluminum imports, heightening the trade war. Software and consumer stocks are leading the decline. iFlytek is down 1.2% and Range Intelligent Computing Technology Group is 2.8% lower. China Tourism Group Duty Free Corp. is down 0.8% and Yonghui Superstores declines 2.15%. BYD rises 2.4% after it introduced an AI-powered driving assistance system in China. The benchmark Shanghai Composite Index is 0.1% lower at 3318.25, the Shenzhen Composite Index is down 0.5% and the ChiNext Price Index is 1.0% lower.(sherry.qin@wsj.com)

2042 ET - Singapore Exchange stands to benefit from an uncertain macroeconomic outlook and potential rate cuts this year, UOB Kay Hian analysts say in a research report. These would improve trading velocity at SGX, sending its cash equities segment into revenue and profitability growth, the analysts say. Also, upcoming announcements from the Monetary Authority of Singapore's review group to revitalize Singapore's stock market would likely boost investor sentiment in 2025, they add. The brokerage lifts its FY 2025-2027 headline PATMI forecasts for SGX by 8%-9% to reflect higher margin assumptions. It raises the stock's target price to S$12.58 from S$11.83 with an unchanged hold rating. Shares are 0.4% higher at S$13.76. (ronnie.harui@wsj.com)

2040 ET - Hong Kong benchmark Hang Seng Index is 0.1% higher at 21538.55, tracking Wall Street's gains overnight. The main theme overnight was risk-on, Commerzbank Research analysts say in a note. Investors have looked past U.S. President Trump's tariff threats on steel and aluminum, they write. BYD rises 3.8% after the company introduced a newdriving-assistance system for low-price mass-market vehicles on Monday. Other advancers include Sunny Optical Technology, which is up 6.2%, and Zijin Mining Group, which climbs 2.7%. Meanwhile, Geely Automobile loses 5.0% and Li Auto is down 3.3%.(amanda.lee@wsj.com)

2010 ET - Singapore's FTSE Straits Times Index edges 0.1% higher to 3880.49 as investors appear to shrug off President Trump's announcement on Monday of global 25% tariffs on imports of steel and aluminum to the U.S. The announcement seems to lack any trigger for broad portfolio derisking and U.S. dollar strength, Pepperstone's Chris Weston says in commentary. "The ability of risky markets to absorb the news and maintain a steady bid is telling," the head of research adds. Among the best performers on the benchmark index, Thai Beverage rises 1.0%, Mapletree Logistics Trust adds 0.8% and Genting Singapore is up 0.7%. (ronnie.harui@wsj.com)

2002 ET - BlueScope Steel is outperforming Australia's benchmark ASX 200 index after Prime Minister Anthony Albanese said the U.S. is considering exempting the country from tariffs on steel and aluminum. Albanese made the remarks following a call with President Trump. Albanese said Australia has a significant trade surplus with the U.S. dating back to the Truman administration and highlighted that BlueScope, which owns the North Star mill in Ohio, is the U.S.'s fifth-largest steel maker. The U.S. isn't a big destination for steel manufactured in Australia, which is mainly sold at home. BlueScope is up 1.7% today, outpacing a 0.2% rise by the ASX 200. (david.winning@wsj.com; @dwinningWSJ)

1859 ET - Ansell's first-half result may give investors the mistaken impression that it is a growth stock, Morgans analyst Derek Jellinek says. He acknowledges that the protective garment manufacturer's performance was stronger than he had anticipated, but tells clients in a note that it was largely driven by acquisition gains, cost reductions, and one-off items. Customers have now finished restocking after running down inventory built up during the Covid-19 pandemic, he says. This spells an end to what he calls "easy gains" by Ansell's healthcare unit. With tariffs now a factor and potential of sales leakage from a change in processes, Jellinek is cautious. Morgans raises its target price by 23% to A$33.38 but keeps a hold rating on the stock, which is down 2.75% at A$36.73. (stuart.condie@wsj.com)

1839 ET - Ansell's bull at Macquarie continues to see value in the stock despite the share-price surge that met the protective-garment maker's stronger-than-expected first-half earnings. An analyst note from the investment bank tells clients that the Australia-listed company's upgraded full-year guidance implies 4% in annual organic Ebit growth. The bank's analyst is slightly more optimistic on this metric, and forecasts 5% organic Ebit growth. The stock jumped 8.1% on release of the first-half result, but Macquarie maintains its outperform rating. Its target price rises 26% to A$40.30. Shares are down 2.6% at A$36.79. (stuart.condie@wsj.com)

1831 ET - Macquarie takes a more bullish view of dividends from iron-ore miner Fortescue, starting from its 1H result this month. The bank raises its payout ratio to 70% of net profit, from 50%, meaning it now expects a dividend of A$0.52/share. "Fortescue will probably lever up to maintain high payout ratios as EPS declines and iron ore prices revert to long-term normalized levels," Macquarie says. That view prompts it to raise FY 2026-2028 payout expectations to 60%, which lifts its dividend forecasts by 20% over the period. "Under these assumptions (with falling EPS across FY 2025-2028), we expect Fortescue to yield 6.7%/4.5%/3.1%, respectively." The bank retains an underperform call on Fortescue. (david.winning@wsj.com; @dwinningWSJ)

1831 ET - Australian electronics retailer JB Hi-Fi keeps its bull at Macquarie on the expectation of continued earnings resilience. A Macquarie analyst note to investors posits that JB Hi-Fi's track record indicates that it can offset higher goods costs by managing its own operating costs. That said, persistent competition could weigh on gross profit, the analysts add. They point out that JB Hi-Fi's better-than-expected first-half momentum has continued into its fiscal second half, and see potential for a capital-management announcement in August thanks to what they call a pristine balance sheet. Macquarie raises its target price by 2.8% to A$111.00 and keeps an outperform rating on the stock. Shares are down 1.75% at A$96.07. (stuart.condie@wsj.com)

1828 ET - Mining company South32's interim dividend could disappoint investors, reckons Macquarie. While South32 is likely to maintain its payout ratio at 40% of underlying earnings, the issue is that 1H profits will be thinner than the market expects, Macquarie says. It tips South32 to declare an interim dividend of 2.3 U.S. cents per share, representing a 27% miss to consensus forecasts. "However, given the materiality of the expected FY 2025 yield (1% annualized), we expect the focus at the results to be on free cash flow," Macquarie says. South32 is due to report its 1H result on Thursday. (david.winning@wsj.com; @dwinningWSJ)

1825 ET - SGH's shares rise 9% soon after Australia's market opens, with Jefferies calling out profit margins at building materials unit Boral as the highlight of its 1H result. SGH reported a 14.3% Ebit margin for Boral in 1H, well above consensus forecasts of 11.7%. That drove a 9% beat to market hopes for Boral's Ebit. "Margin delivery is impressive given weaker volumes and likely operating deleverage," analyst Kai Erman says. SGH reaffirmed expectations for high single-digit Ebit growth in FY 2025, which Jefferies considers to be conservative. Jefferies retains a hold call on SGH. (david.winning@wsj.com; @dwinningWSJ)

1812 ET - CAR Group's guidance downgrade for its U.S. business doesn't worry Macquarie analysts, who see double-digit annual revenue growth as sustainable. They acknowledge that CAR's move to lower its outlook for Trader Interactive revenue growth prompted analysts to debate its significance, but ultimately decide that it was related to a delayed price rise. The Macquarie analysts tell clients in a note that it the company is sensible to align timing with the seasonal recovery of the recreational vehicle market. Macquarie raises its target price 5.1% to A$39.00 and stays neutral on the stock, which is down 3.3% at A$37.10. (stuart.condie@wsj.com)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250210012475:0/)
