---
title: "Swiss Franc Could Fall as Correlation to U.S. Yields Rises — Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-12 21:20:00"
summary: "0820 ET - The Swiss franc could weaken against the dollar as the exchange rate's correlation with U.S. Treasury yields improves, Bank of America forex strategists say in a note. USD/CHF has lagged the rise in 10-year U.S. yields given the franc's strong link to gold and precious metals, they..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

0820 ET - The Swiss franc could weaken against the dollar as the exchange rate's correlation with U.S. Treasury yields improves, Bank of America forex strategists say in a note. USD/CHF has lagged the rise in 10-year U.S. yields given the franc's strong link to gold and precious metals, they say. A rise in gold prices in recent years has caused wider Swiss trade surpluses as Switzerland remains the world's largest refiner of gold and precious metals. While Switzerland's current account position remains healthy, due to gold, it has recorded four consecutive quarterly basic balance deficits. "This gives us greater conviction that Swiss franc weakness will be more durable in 2025." However, demand for gold means any franc depreciation will be gradual. (renae.dyer@wsj.com)

0751 ET - The cost of insuring China's sovereign debt against default using credit default swaps falls to a two-year low, boosted by news about AI advancements from Chinese companies. Stocks of Chinese electric vehicle manufacturer BYD have rallied following news that it plans to integrate software from AI company DeepSeek in its cars, Swissquote Bank's Ipek Ozkardeskaya says in a note. "Chinese tech stocks are surfing on the DeepSeek wave," she says. China's five-year credit default swaps fall 4 basis points to 49bps, a low last reached in January 2023, S&P Global Market Intelligence data show. (miriam.mukuru@wsj.com)

0720 ET - Most Canadians are worried about retirement, a Bank of Montreal survey finds. It notes that 76% of Canadians are worried about not having enough money in retirement because of rising prices, and 63% believe price increases over the past 12 months have limited their ability to save for retirement. On average, those surveyed believe they will need just over C$1.54 million to retire, down from C$1.67 million in 2023. "The spike in prices as the economy emerged from the pandemic is a stark reminder rising prices can affect spending, investment and savings plans," says BMO senior economist Robert Kavcic. The online survey of 1,500 adults was conducted in November. (robb.stewart@wsj.com)

0658 ET - The European Commission's plan to withdraw proposed new patent rules for standardized technologies sends a 'terrible signal' to innovative businesses, who rely on fair licensing, the Fair Standards Alliance says. The FSA is a lobby group backed by smartphone makers such as Apple and auto groups like BMW and Ford. It says scrapping the regulation goes against a call by former European Central Bank President Mario Draghi to create policies that make it easier for businesses in the bloc to innovate. "We urge the commission to reconsider," the group says. (edith.hancock@wsj.com)

0643 ET - The dollar could fall slightly further if U.S. inflation data at 1330 GMT are lower than expected, ING's Chris Turner says in a note. Annual benchmark revisions to inflation increase the risk that the January print is 0.2% on-month versus the 0.3% expected, he says. This could give the Federal Reserve slightly more confidence in the disinflation process and prompt markets to price in more interest rate cuts for 2025, he says. Given some sense of financial market stability as U.S. interest rate volatility falls, the DXY dollar index could fall to 107.300 from 107.883 currently. However, any announcement of new tariffs from President Trump would "easily blow any ideas of a dollar correction out of the water." (renae.dyer@wsj.com)

0626 ET - The allotment yield levels at Portugal's government bond auction on Wednesday are within the average levels recorded in recent months, Banco Carregosa's Filipe Silva says in a post-auction comment. Portugal's debt agency sold a total of 1.496 billion euros in 2034-, 2042- and 2052-dated bonds with allotment yields at 2.786%, 3.342% and 3.433%, respectively. "Currently, we are in a context of falling interest rates, however, longer maturities reflect expectations of several rate cuts by the European Central Bank," the investment director says. This was Portugal's first government bond auction this year, but it already carried out a 4 billion-euro syndicated issue of a 10-year bond in January. Portugal also had a bond buyback auction in January. (emese.bartha@wsj.com)

0558 ET - The sharp fall in India's headline consumer price inflation in January vindicates last week's rate cut by the RBI, and suggests that more easing lies in store, says Harry Chambers at Capital Economics. Food inflation will likely continue easing, and given softer economic growth, underlying price pressures will be capped, the assistant economist adds. With inflation moderating and the RBI's focus pivoting to boosting economic growth, Chambers expects another 75 bps of cuts this year as the central bank continues to loosen policy over the coming months to support the economy. (kimberley.kao@wsj.com)

0554 ET - The cost of insuring euro credit against default using credit default swaps falls ahead of the release of the U.S. inflation data at 1330 GMT. U.S. annual headline inflation is likely to steady near 2.9% and core inflation may have decelerated to 3.1% from 3.2%, Swissquote Bank's Ipek Ozkardeskaya says in a note. "A set of softer-than-expected inflation numbers could help sooth inflation worries," she says. The iTraxx Europe Crossover index which tracks euro junk bond credit default swaps declines 1 basis point to 287bps, S&P Global Market Intelligence data show. The iTraxx Europe Senior Financials index which tracks euro investment-grade financial bond CDS falls 1 basis point to 58bps. (miriam.mukuru@wsj.com)

0536 ET - Modest fiscal expansion in Germany--if this is implemented after the upcoming elections on Feb. 23--wouldn't change investment fundamentals for German and European assets, says State Street Global Advisors. "Weak economic growth, albeit stronger than in 2024, coupled with falling inflation will keep bond yields in decline and the euro weak in the near term," it says. However, greater issuance of Bunds and the growth gap in favor of Europe's periphery imply narrower spreads between Bunds and peripheral bonds, it says. France is an exception, where political paralysis and fiscal excess will likely weigh on long-dated government bonds. Unlike Germany, most other eurozone countries have little scope for public spending. (emese.bartha@wsj.com)

0528 ET - France has robust foundations on which to weather a trade battle with the U.S., central-bank governor Francois Villeroy de Galhau argues. The eurozone's second-largest economy is, like the rest of the continent, braced for punitive tariffs on its goods exported to the U.S. under President Trump. But France isn't reliant solely on strong export sectors like aeronautics and luxury goods, Villeroy insists. "The French economy... also includes many services, artificial intelligence, tourism and many other areas still developing," the policymaker says. France's level of price inflation has meanwhile been tamed and unemployment is at relatively low levels, he tells Radio France. (joshua.kirby@wsj.com; @joshualeokirby)

0525 ET - Europe should treat U.S. President Trump as wake-up call, Bank of France Governor Francois Villeroy de Galhau says. Trump's election to a second term in the White House has brought about an immediate cooling of relations between the U.S. and Europe, with mutual threats of trade tariffs. Europe must not allow itself to be caught unaware by Trump's mercurial policymaking, Villeroy tells Radio France. "That is not a viable economic strategy," he says. Europe has many strengths and should not make a rod for its own back, says Villeroy, who serves on the governing council of the European Central Bank. "It is very much to be wished that Europe wake up," he says. (joshua.kirby@wsj.com; @joshualeokirby)

0515 ET - Finland's Nokia welcomes the European Commission's intention to withdraw a hotly-debated plan to regulate royalty payouts for standardized technologies used in smartphones and connected cars, the company says in a statement. "We share the Commission's goals for more transparent and efficient licensing" of so-called standard essential patents, a spokesperson says, adding that the commission's first stab at drafting the rules was flawed. "It would have had an adverse impact on the global innovation ecosystem," they say. They add that it would have reduced incentives for Europe's high-tech companies to invest in developing new standards for technologies like 6G. "The Commission's willingness to rethink its approach on this important topic is a positive step," they say.(edith.hancock@wsj.com)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250212007747:0/)
