---
title: "Global Equities Roundup: Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-14 12:01:00"
summary: "The latest Market Talks covering Equities. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.0401 GMT - Lenovo Group's fiscal 3Q results were likely a solid beat, supported by better-than-expected PC and smartphone shipments, UOB Kay Hian analysts say in a research note. U.S. tariffs remain a risk, but all..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The latest Market Talks covering Equities. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.

0401 GMT - Lenovo Group's fiscal 3Q results were likely a solid beat, supported by better-than-expected PC and smartphone shipments, UOB Kay Hian analysts say in a research note. U.S. tariffs remain a risk, but all PC players will be affected, as most brands still heavily rely on assembly capacity in China, they say. The analysts estimate that Lenovo could face a 10%-15% impact on its bottom line for every additional 10% tariff on Chinese goods. "Nevertheless, if every player ends up being impacted, it is likely that the costs will be transferred to the customers, and could cause a slight impact to U.S. PC shipment," they say. PC brands will likely expand their U.S. production capacity, though it would take time, they add. Shares are up 2.8% at HK$12.50. (sherry.qin@wsj.com)

0352 GMT - Lenovo Group could be a key beneficiary of DeepSeek's breakthrough, UOB Kay Hian analysts Johnny Yum and Colin Lee say in a research note. The cheaper and more accessible AI features introduced by DeepSeek could encourage more enterprises, especially small- and mid-sized ones, to start investing in AI equipment, the analysts say. This could accelerate replacement demand for both PCs and servers, they add. Lenovo recently incorporated DeepSeek's AI model into its in-house AI assistant and is reportedly having more collaboration with the AI startup. UOB maintains a buy call on Lenovo and raises its target price to HK$14.30 from HK$12.00 on better visibility of the AI PC replacement cycle thanks to DeepSeek. Shares are 2.8% higher at HK$12.50. (sherry.qin@wsj.com)

0345 GMT - Honda Motor estimates that Trump's 25% tariffs on Canadian and Mexican imports to the U.S., which will likely trigger retaliatory action by the two countries, would cost the company about $4.6 billion annually. About one-third of Honda cars sold in the American market are imported from Canada and Mexico, according to Honda's executive vice president Shinji Aoyama. "We are taking short-term measures, such as bringing production in Mexico and Canada to the U.S., as much as possible, by the end of February," Aoyama said at a Thursday news conference. "In the medium term, we are also preparing to consider slightly changing the allocation of models." (megumi.fujikawa@wsj.com)

0332 GMT - Kakao may post weak 1Q earnings due to its apparent lack of competitiveness in display advertising and its saturated online-gifting business, Nomura analysts Angela Hong and Won Kang write in a note. The South Korean mobile internet company's profit margins may also deteriorate in 1Q due to expected weak revenue from its paid-content business and the burden of fixed costs, they say. Kakao aims to enhance its advertising and e-commerce competitiveness with generative AI-based search tools, but its 2025 advertising business outlook remains uncertain, they add. Nomura raises its target price for Kakao by 5.4% to KRW39,000 but maintains a neutral rating. Shares are 3.0% lower at KRW39,000. (kwanwoo.jun@wsj.com)

0325 GMT - Bank Rakyat Indonesia (Persero)'s credit costs may increase this year owing to its clean-up of asset-quality issues, Bahana Sekuritas analysts say in a research report. Management guided for credit costs to rise to 3.0%-3.2% in 2025 versus 2024 guidance of less than 3%. Key assumptions include its bank-only segment carrying out IDR38 trillion-40 trillion of write-offs, while the rest will be allocated to subsidiaries, the analysts note. The bank expects a substantial increase in credit costs in 1Q owing to seasonality and fewer working days affecting collection efforts together with likely liquidity pressures. The analysts lower the stock's target price to IDR5,500.00 from IDR5,600.00 with an unchanged buy rating. Shares are 1.5% lower at IDR3,930.00. (ronnie.harui@wsj.com)

0242 GMT - Oiltek International seems to be winning more orders, Phillip Securities Research's Paul Chew says in a research report, as the brokerage raises the stock's target price to S$1.48 from S$1.19 with an unchanged buy rating. As plantation production and acreage grow outside Southeast Asia, the integrated process technology and renewable energy solutions provider is obtaining additional refinery orders, the head of research notes. The brokerage is upbeat on the Singapore-listed company's new orders to be secured this year, with biodiesel capacity in Indonesia and Malaysia and refining facilities in South America as areas of opportunity. Shares are 0.85% lower at S$1.17. (ronnie.harui@wsj.com)

0159 GMT - Chinese shares are fluctuating between mild gains and losses after opening mostly lower. Investors are digesting President Trump's next move on tariffs after a delay of his long-threatened reciprocal tariffs. Pharmaceutical and auto stocks are leading the gains. Jiangsu Hengrui Medicine is up 1.4% and WuXi AppTec is 3.8% higher. BYD increases 1.4% and Great Wall Motor is 2.05% higher. Property stocks are broadly lower with Poly Developments & Holdings Group down 1.2% and China Vanke falling 2.0%. The benchmark Shanghai Composite Index is down 0.2% at 3326.94, the Shenzhen Composite Index is 0.2% lower and the ChiNext Price Index is up 0.4%. (sherry.qin@wsj.com)

0146 GMT - Hong Kong shares are higher in early trade, supported by tech and consumer product stocks. Sentiment remains positive and investors are watching companies' earnings to evaluate fundamentals and valuations. Among the top gainers, Alibaba Health Information Technology is up 7.5% and Kuaishou Technology rises 4.2%. JD.com and Meituan are up 3.6% and 2.9%, respectively. China Mengniu Dairy adds 2.7% and China Resources Beer gains 2.4%. Among the few decliners, WH Group is down 1.6% and Zhongsheng Group is 1.25% lower. The benchmark Hang Seng Index is up 1.4% at 22122.50 and the Hang Seng Tech gains 1.8%.(jiahui.huang@wsj.com; @ivy\_jiahuihuang)

0132 GMT - South32's stock appears to be gaining tailwinds, according to Citi analysts Paul McTaggart and Ephrem Ravi, who upgrade the miner's shares to buy from neutral. They expect improved cash generation in 2H FY 2025, with a working capital unwind and lower unit operating costs on higher production. South32 is also likely to expand buyback activity and, by FY results, update investors on a possible sale of its Cerro Matoso nickel operation. "Investors would likely soon shift their focus to FY27 with yet higher production and our FY27 [copper] price of US$4.76/pound for EV/Ebitda of 3.1x," the analysts say. Citi's target goes to A$4.00 from A$3.90. South32 is up 1.1% at A$3.61/share. (rhiannon.hoyle@wsj.com; @RhiannonHoyle)

0124 GMT - iFAST's 2025-2026 earnings stand to benefit from two tailwinds, DBS Group Research's Lee Keng Ling says in a research report. The investment product distribution platform achieved record-high assets under administration of S$25.01 billion as at end-December, with management setting a target to reach S$100 billion by 2028-2030, the analyst notes. DBS raises its 2025 and 2026 earnings estimates for iFAST by roughly 10% each year as it now assumes higher AUA growth of 20% a year versus the 15% forecast previously. Higher contributions from iFAST Global Bank are also expected on its improved profitability. DBS raises the stock's target price to S$10.23 from S$9.57 and maintians a buy rating. Shares are 0.6% lower at S$7.82. (ronnie.harui@wsj.com)

0116 GMT - Singapore's FTSE Straits Times Index falls 0.4% to 3867.97 as investors digest U.S. President Trump's tariff actions. Trump ordered officials to address what he described as "unfair" conduct by trading partners, a move toward potentially wide-ranging tariffs, Phillip Securities Research team says in commentary. However, Trump's plan also didn't include immediate levies, the team adds. Among the worst performers on the benchmark index, Singapore Exchange slips 5.1%, DFI Retail Group falls 1.7%, and Seatrium is down 1.6%. Meanwhile, Mapletree Logistics Trust rises 1.6% and Frasers Logistics & Commercial Trust adds 1.15%. (ronnie.harui@wsj.com)

0115 GMT - Computershare's price-to-earnings is well above its 15-year average, suggesting to Morgan Stanley analyst Andrei Stadnik that the stock's re-rating may have come ahead of schedule. He points out in a note to clients that the share-registry provider's margin income--interest earned on cash held for dividends--is likely to fall from 80% of pretax profit to about 65% in fiscal 2026. Stadnik says the stock is more sensitive to rate moves than either banks or insurers, with EPS growth into fiscal 2026 looking limited. MS lifts its target price 18% to A$36.60 but maintains an equal-weight rating on the stock. Shares are up 0.7% at A$42.875. (stuart.condie@wsj.com)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250213018581:0/)
