---
title: "European Midday Briefing: Stocks Rise on Ukraine Ceasefire Hopes"
date: "2025-02-13 18:08:00"
summary: "MARKET WRAPSStocks:European stocks traded mostly higher on Thursday on optimism over a Ukraine-Russia peace deal.Trump said on Wednesday he and Vladimir Putin had agreed to begin talks on a peace deal to settle the Ukraine war with concessions to Russia.Although it is unclear whether a truce in the conflict would..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

MARKET WRAPS

Stocks:

European stocks traded mostly higher on Thursday on optimism over a Ukraine-Russia peace deal.

Trump said on Wednesday he and Vladimir Putin had agreed to begin talks on a peace deal to settle the Ukraine war with concessions to Russia.

Although it is unclear whether a truce in the conflict would lead to a removal of sanctions on Russia and improved energy supply for Europe, investors could see it as a logical next step, Barclays said.

This could lift sentiment on the energy intensive sectors and manufacturing plays, the bank said.

Meanwhile, London stocks fell after data showed the U.K. economy grew only slightly at the end of last year.

Stocks to Watch

European defense stocks could see their valuations boosted by about 30% if the European members of NATO increase their defense spending to 3% of their gross domestic product, Citi said.

On Wednesday, U.S. Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth doubled down on President Trump's calls for European members of NATO to boost defense spending to 5% of their GDP.

"If Russia emerges from a peace deal emboldened, we believe this is likely to make European nations--particularly those closer to Russia--feel less, rather than more, secure," Citi said.

"In the end, the paradox of a peace may be that it catalyzes even higher European defense spending."

U.S. Markets:

Stock futures wavered as another inflation reading is due, this time for wholesale prices.

Meantime, the White House has said President Trump will outline today reciprocal tariffs on nations that have imposed levies on U.S. exports.

Earnings are due from companies including Airbnb, Applied Materials, Coinbase, DraftKings, Deere and PG&E.

Forex:

The euro's gains could have further to run on optimism over a ceasefire in the Ukraine-Russia conflict, ING said.

"Progress on peace in Ukraine could be an important positive for European countries should it deliver lower energy prices and encourage broader investment on the back of something like a new Marshall Plan."

However, the threat of U.S. tariffs on Europe could limit the euro's appreciation. Sticky U.S. inflation and interest rate differentials in favor of the dollar could also hold back the euro.

The dollar fell as hopes for a deal to end the Ukraine-Russia conflict reduced demand for safe-haven assets, Swissquote Bank said.

The dollar's decline comes even after the U.S. inflation data exceeded expectations. This encourages other currencies to recover losses against the dollar such as the euro, Swissquote added.

Sterling rose but ING said it could hand back its gains if investors reassess the seeminglybetter-than-expected growth data.

Growth was driven by a massive rise in inventories, which are volatile and don't tell much about underlying economic fundamentals, it said.

Consumption was flat, business investment fell sharply and net trade was flat.

"So it's a lacklustre story, which puts pressure on the U.K. Treasury to find savings."

ING is negative on sterling for the second quarter and expects EUR/GBP to stay above the 0.8300-0.8350 this month.

Bonds:

Stabilization may lie ahead for bond markets as this week's duration-heavy supply in the eurozone is cleared and the macro calendar thins out, Commerzbank Research said.

However, positive risk sentiment on the latest headlines around Ukraine limits the potential in Bunds, it added.

Treasurys pared some of Wednesday's weakness that was prompted by above-consensus inflation data.

"With inflation still above target and the Federal Reserve on hold, fundamentals take center stage," Global X said.

However, large and small companies see strong sales and earnings growth so far this quarter and higher rates aren't yet much of an impediment, it added.

Energy:

Oil prices extended the previous trading session's losses on news that Trump and Putin agreed to open talks to end the war in Ukraine.

Meanwhile, hotter-than-expected inflation data in the U.S. also weighed on sentiment, upholding the Fed's more cautious stance on interest-rate cuts.

Metals:

Gold futures rose, sitting close to all-time highs on safe-haven demand.

Gold's gains come despite rising U.S. yields, Swissquote Bank said.

This usually negative relationship has broken down as big buyers, including central banks, flee typically safe U.S. debt and replace it with gold, it added.

Spot gold prices hitting the $3,000 an ounce level could trigger some profit taking and a tactical opportunity to short the yellow metal, but the medium to long-term outlook for gold remains positive, Swissquote said.

"If Bitcoin could rally to $100,000, gold could well continue its journey toward... $4,000 per ounce."

Gold could touch $3,000/oz in 2025 , ANZ Research said as it maintained a bullish stance on the precious metal.

EMEA HEADLINES

Unilever to List Ice Cream Business in Amsterdam, London and New York

Unilever will demerge its ice cream business and list it in Amsterdam, London and New York, ending months of speculation over how the company would move ahead with previously announced plans to separate the business.

The consumer-goods giant announced plans to carve out the business nearly 12 months ago as part of Chief Executive Hein Schumacher's plan to inject growth into the group by focusing on fewer things and concentrating on businesses that share manufacturing and distribution systems. Ice cream was singled out as it has a different operating model to the rest of the group.

Nestle Sales Growth Hits Historical Low as Shoppers Retreat

Nestle reported its weakest annual organic sales growth in more than two decades, hit by a pullback in consumer spending after years of high inflation.

The Swiss maker of KitKat chocolate bars and Nescafe coffee said Thursday that organic sales grew 2.2% in 2024.

British American Tobacco Shares Fall on Results Miss, $7.7 Billion Canadian Provision

British American Tobacco shares fell after the company missed market expectations for 2024 and announced a $7.72 billion provision related to a litigation settlement in Canada.

Shares were down 8.4% at 31.08 pounds. However, the stock is up more than 40% over the last 52 weeks.

Siemens Net Profit Beats Market Views on Continued Data Center Demand

Siemens posted a first-quarter net profit increase that beat market expectations as it continues to benefit from data-center demand.

The German industrial conglomerate has been among the early winners in a data-center boom driven by artificial intelligence, which powered growth in orders, revenue and profit at Siemens's key smart infrastructure segment. The division makes electrical and grid equipment that are in high demand amid a rush to build more infrastructure to support the AI era.

Thyssenkrupp Shares Jump After Surge in Marine Orders Prompts Cash-Flow Guidance Raise

Thyssenkrupp shares rose sharply after the German industrial company lifted its cash-flow guidance on the back of surging orders at its marine systems business.

In early European trading Thursday, shares were trading 9.6% higher at 4.97 euros. The stock is up nearly 27% in the year to date.

Commerzbank to Cut Thousands of Jobs as It Targets Higher Returns

Commerzbank plans to lay off around 9% of its workforce in a bid to boost profitability and convince investors of its standalone prospects as it fends off an unwanted approach from Italy's UniCredit.

Germany's leading lender for small and medium-size companies outlined a fresh strategy to defend its independence as UniCredit's attempts to engineer a merger are slowed down by political opposition and pending elections.

Barclays Guides For Growth After Quarterly Beat

Barclays said it expects an increase in profitability this year as it reported better-than-expected results for its fourth quarter.

The British bank on Thursday posted a pretax profit of 1.66 billion pounds ($2.07 billion) for the three months ended Dec. 31, up from 110 million pounds a year prior when it booked hefty restructuring charges, and ahead of a 1.62 billion pound estimate taken from a company-compiled consensus.

GLOBAL NEWS

IEA Slightly Lifts Oil Demand Outlook, Says Supply Surplus Narrowing

The International Energy Agency modestly raised its forecast for global oil-demand growth and said improved compliance with output quotas among members of the OPEC+ alliance is reducing a projected supply surplus in the market.

The Paris-based organization now estimates global demand to grow by 1.1 million barrels a day this year from 1.05 million barrels a day previously, reaching a total of 104 million barrels a day on average.

Retail investors bought the dip after hot CPI. This Goldman strategist says the tide is about to turn.

All the dips are getting bought these days.

The S&P 500 SPX initially fell as much as 1.1% after the hotter-than-forecast consumer price index report, but it didn't stay that way, with losses trimmed to 0.3% by the end of the session on Wednesday.

China Tries to Play the Role of Peacemaker in Ukraine

As President Trump and Russian President Vladimir Putin signal they are prepared to start negotiations to end the war in Ukraine, China is pushing to play a role.

Chinese officials in recent weeks have floated a proposal to the Trump team through intermediaries to hold a summit between the two leaders and to facilitate peacekeeping efforts after an eventual truce, according to people in Beijing and Washington familiar with the matter.

Arab States Wake Up to Fact That Trump Means What He Says on Gaza

Egypt has launched a diplomatic blitz to corral support for an Arab-led and funded initiative to rebuild the Gaza Strip, setting aside old political concerns in hopes of boxing out a Trump plan that is wildly unpopular across the Arab world.

The efforts show how President Trump's surprise proposal for the U.S. to take over Gaza and redevelop it as an international destination-while its Palestinian population is moved out-has upended the positions of major players in the region toward the 16-month war between Israel and Hamas.

Write to ina.kreutz@wsj.com

Write to us at newsletters@dowjones.com

We offer an enhanced version of this briefing that is optimized for viewing on mobile devices and sent directly to your email inbox. If you would like to sign up, please go to https://newsplus.wsj.com/subscriptions.

This article is a text version of a Wall Street Journal newsletter published earlier today.

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250213004919:0/)
