---
title: "Ahead of Nvidia earnings, brace for some Blackwell 'growing pains'"
date: "2025-02-14 01:20:00"
summary: "By Emily BaryNvidia investors could be disappointed by trends in the current quarter, but there's big opportunity beyond that point for the company's new chipsA Mizuho analyst sees \"growing pains\" ahead for Nvidia Corp. as the company pursues the big opportunities afforded by its new Blackwell graphics processing units.While Mizuho's..."
categories:
  - "MarketWatch"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "MarketWatch"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Emily Bary

Nvidia investors could be disappointed by trends in the current quarter, but there's big opportunity beyond that point for the company's new chips

A Mizuho analyst sees "growing pains" ahead for Nvidia Corp. as the company pursues the big opportunities afforded by its new Blackwell graphics processing units.

While Mizuho's Vijay Rakesh thinks Nvidia (NVDA) can deliver in-line performance with its data-center business for the January quarter, he thinks the company could see "more flattish" trends for the April quarter. The FactSet consensus calls for $33.4 billion in revenue for the January quarter and $37.4 billion in the April quarter, but Rakesh now expects $36.7 billion in revenue for the April quarter.

"Not unexpectedly, [Nvidia] GPU [artificial-intelligence] servers with GB200 drive a complex connectivity/power upgrade," Rakesh wrote, referring to one of the Blackwell products.

He also has some worries about China trends and the impact of restrictions on the market there.

Investors will get more information on Feb. 26, when Nvidia reports results for the January quarter.

See also: Buy Nvidia's stock ahead of earnings? This analyst makes the case.

Things should get better for Nvidia in the second half of the year, according to Rakesh. Microsoft Corp. (MSFT), Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) and Alphabet Inc. (GOOGL) (GOOG) are all ramping their capital expenditures, and there are "potential additional tailwinds" from Oracle Corp. (ORCL), Apple Inc. (AAPL) and OpenAI.

"We continue to see [Nvidia] driving strong industry leadership with its CUDA [software] ecosystem, on top of its integrated [hardware] platform where it has strong customer relationships," Rakesh wrote. He has an outperform rating on the stock, with a $175 target price.

Nvidia shares are up 3.2% in morning trading Thursday.

Meanwhile, Morgan Stanley's Joseph Moore defended Nvidia's stock during what he sees as a period of "excessive" excitement for companies like Broadcom Inc. (AVGO) and Marvell Technology Inc. (MRVL) that make application-specific integrated circuits, another type of chip that's gaining steam for AI.

There's a "wide range of potential outcomes, but our view is that the presumption should be that the incumbent - Nvidia - retainsdominant share unless something changes," he wrote.

Alphabet has been working on custom chips in conjunction with Broadcom, Moore noted, and while that's resulted in sizable revenue for Broadcom, he said it's also worth remembering that Nvidia's share of Alphabet spending should only increase this year.

"Specifically in the case of Google, we expect their purchases of Nvidia to roughly double this year, while TPU will grow modestly," he wrote. TPUs, or tensor processing units, are Alphabet's custom chips.

Read: Intel's stock is on a run not seen in more than two decades

-Emily Bary

This content was created by MarketWatch, which is operated by Dow Jones & Co. MarketWatch is published independently from Dow Jones Newswires and The Wall Street Journal.

[MarketWatch](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_SN20250213012427:0/)
