---
title: "Phillips 66 Stock Is Rising. Activist Investor Elliott Wants More From Refiner. — Barrons.com"
date: "2025-02-11 19:50:00"
summary: "By Brian SwintPhillips 66, whose stock has dropped 15% over the past year, was rising early Tuesday after a report that activist investor Elliott Management has expanded its stake in the oil refining company.Elliott has built up a $2.5 billion position in Phillips 66 and will push for operational changes..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Brian Swint

Phillips 66, whose stock has dropped 15% over the past year, was rising early Tuesday after a report that activist investor Elliott Management has expanded its stake in the oil refining company.

Elliott has built up a $2.5 billion position in Phillips 66 and will push for operational changes to boost the stock, The Wall Street Journal reported, citing people familiar with the matter. The activist had a $1 billion stake at the end of 2023.

Coming into Tuesday's session, the shares had barely risen since then. But the stock gained 6.5% in premarket trading Tuesday to $131.71 on optimism that Elliott's push will yield results.

Elliott has a track record of targeting energy firms, and it has also recently taken a stake in U.K. major BP. In the past it has sought changes at Hess, Marathon Petroleum, NRG Energy, and Suncor Energy.

The fund will now pursue a number of changes at Phillips 66, including selling off its midstream business that transports fuel. After disclosing its initial stake in 2023, Elliott and the Phillips 66 management agreed on a new board member and said they would work on another one — that person has yet to be named. Elliott believes that Phillips has not yet honored its commitment to more board changes, the WSJ report said.

Phillips stock has performed worse than its rivals over the past 12 months. Marathon is down 9.5% and Valero Energy Corp. is down 3.4%. The S&P 500 index is up 21% during the same period.

Phillips 66 was spun off from ConocoPhillips in 2012. It runs refineries in California, Texas, and Louisiana, and also owns pipeline networks and gas stations.

Write to Brian Swint at brian.swint@barrons.com

This content was created by Barron's, which is operated by Dow Jones & Co. Barron's is published independently from Dow Jones Newswires and The Wall Street Journal.

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250211003328:0/)
