---
title: "An Oceanfront Compound in the Florida Keys Is Asking $42 Million — WSJ"
date: "2025-02-12 03:00:00"
summary: "By Katherine ClarkeBe the first to know about the biggest and best luxury home sales and listings by signing up for our Mansion Deals email alert.Indiana residents Kurt and Kathi Westman dreamed of retiring in a tropical paradise, but they didn't want to leave the country. So they went as..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Katherine Clarke

Be the first to know about the biggest and best luxury home sales and listings by signing up for our Mansion Deals email alert.

Indiana residents Kurt and Kathi Westman dreamed of retiring in a tropical paradise, but they didn't want to leave the country. So they went as far south as they could without leaving the U.S., to the Florida Keys.

There, they turned a former fish farm into a 5-acre residential compound with Tiki huts and a resort-style pool.

Their oceanfront Islamorada home, which took about six years to design and build, is now coming on the market for $42 million. If it sells for close to that price, it would set a record for the Keys, according to listing agents Eric Rizzo and Russ Post of Ocean Sotheby's International Realty.

Made up of several islands, Islamorada is located about 80 miles south of Miami between the Atlantic Ocean and the Gulf of Mexico. The Westmans paid $3 million for their land in 2011 and built a new home, completing it around 2017. The roughly 11,000-square-foot residence is currently configured as five bedrooms across a main house and guest quarters. The property also has a tennis court, dock and a private beach.

Kurt founded Al-Fe Heat Treating, a commercial aluminum heat-treating operation that was based in Fort Wayne, Ind. The Westmans, an active couple who love tennis and being on the water, started vacationing in the Keys in the 1980s and bought a condo there. After Kurt retired in 2018, they started splitting their time between the Keys and Salida, Colo.

The Westmans wanted a large, single-family retirement home in the Keys, but couldn't find a house they loved.

"There were a lot of beautiful homes, but we were looking for something special with a little bit of land," Kurt said.

Eventually, Kathi found a for-sale-by-owner listing for a 5-acre parcel of land in Islamorada. It had once been home to a fish farm, and there were still large concrete tanks used in the operations on the site. They removed the tanks and started building a new home.

The design of the main house was intended to maximize the views of the water, said Kathi. A double-height formal living room has windows that stretch from floor to ceiling.

"Kathi wanted one of those 'wow' moments when you walked in the house," Kurt said. "I think the architects pulled that off."

The compound is currently configured with two bedrooms in the main house and three in the guest quarters, which is accessed via breezeway from the main house. There are two offices, a formal dining room, and a wine cellar for roughly 1,000 bottles. Hurricane-resistant doors and windows were installed to mitigate storm risk, Kathi said. Outside, the heated pool has a waterfall and grotto. There is an outdoor summer kitchen and a saltwater pond with native sea life. They declined to comment on how much they spent building the home.

The Westmans are selling because they recently finished building a new home in Colorado and have been spending more time there. While they plan on keeping a place in South Florida, they don't need quite such a large home there, they said.

Post, one of the listing agents, said he thinks the scale and finishes of the property justify the ambitious asking price.

"A lot of people price things aggressively, but this is actually worth it," he said. "If this home was in Miami or Palm Beach, it would be getting at least double the price."

More wealth has poured into the Keys in recent years, Rizzo said, as luxury home prices have increased in Miami and Palm Beach. Homes in the Keys have historically been more affordable than those areas, in part because the Keys are further from major airports and have limited industry beyond fishing and tourism. In 2023, a $23 million deal in Islamorada set the current Keys record.

Write to Katherine Clarke at Katherine.Clarke@wsj.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250211008782:0/)
