---
title: "Energy & Utilities Roundup: Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-10 17:20:00"
summary: "The latest Market Talks covering Energy and Utilities. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires at 4:20 ET, 12:20 ET and 16:50 ET.0844 GMT - Elliott Management could force BP to reorganize its business and make changes to its board after it was reported the hedge fund has built a stake..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The latest Market Talks covering Energy and Utilities. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires at 4:20 ET, 12:20 ET and 16:50 ET.

0844 GMT - Elliott Management could force BP to reorganize its business and make changes to its board after it was reported the hedge fund has built a stake in the British energy giant, Jefferies analysts Giacomo Romeo and Kai Ye Loh write. Elliott could look to remove BP Chairman Helge Lund at the next AGM in late April or early May, the analysts write. Increasing shareholder returns by maximizing free-cash-flow generation via reduced capex and increased divestments would be a key goal, they add. It may also seek to refocus BP's strategy on traditional oil and gas activities and reduce exposure to low-carbon assets, they add. Shares trade up 7.4% at 465 pence. This is BP's best one-day rise since summer 2023. (adam.whittaker@wsj.com)

0618 GMT - BP's underperforming shares should be boosted by the introduction of a serious activist investor, RBC Capital Markets analysts Biraj Borkhataria and Adnan Dhanani write. Over the weekend, there were unconfirmed reports that Elliott Management has built a significant stake in the British energy company. Any activist investor is likely to call for a change in chairperson and might put pressure on BP to spin off some divisions, the analysts write. Its U.S. shale division, which is worth around $20 billion, its $10 billion lubricants division, and its marketing and retail business, valued at up to $40 billion, are potential target areas, the analyst write. BP's shares closed Friday at 433.25 pence and are down 9.45% over the past 12 months. (adam.whittaker@wsj.com)

0009 GMT - Oil edges higher in the early Asian session. Last week, the U.S. imposed sanctions on an international network facilitating the shipment of Iranian crude to China to increase pressure on the Middle Eastern country. The sanctions could offer short-term support by limiting Iranian oil availability, says Hamza Zraimek, CEO of IGOUDAR in an email. However, broader worries over global supply and demand dynamics continue, Zraimek adds. Front-month WTI crude oil futures are up 0.3% at $71.19/bbl; front-month Brent crude oil futures are 0.25% higher at $74.85/bbl. (ronnie.harui@wsj.com)

2205 GMT - Jefferies doesn't expect AGL Energy's 1H result to be as strong as last year and investors should be OK with that. It forecasts 1H Ebitda of A$937 million, down from A$1.07 billion a year ago, because realized electricity prices eased over the period. Net profit also likely declined to A$270 million, says Jefferies, acknowledging that consensus hopes are some 12% higher than that. "However, the current pricing stability remains attractive, with the increased benefit from the increased flexibility of coal generators," analyst Anthony Moulder says. "With forward wholesale electricity prices remaining elevated for FY 2026, and with earnings and cash flows remaining supportive for further investment in grid connected batteries, AGL remains well-positioned." (david.winning@wsj.com; @dwinningWSJ)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250210002190:0/)
