---
title: "News Highlights: Top Global Markets News of the Day - Friday at 3 AM ET"
date: "2025-02-14 16:15:00"
summary: "S&amp;P 500 Rises; Producer Inflation Tops ForecastsU.S. stocks rose on Thursday after President Trump raised hopes of a resolution to the Ukraine war and then later put off a decision on additional tariffs on foreign goods.Vance Wields Threat of Sanctions, Military Action to Push Putin Into Ukraine DealIn an interview..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

**S&P 500 Rises; Producer Inflation Tops Forecasts**

U.S. stocks rose on Thursday after President Trump raised hopes of a resolution to the Ukraine war and then later put off a decision on additional tariffs on foreign goods.

**Vance Wields Threat of Sanctions, Military Action to Push Putin Into Ukraine Deal**

In an interview with The Wall Street Journal, the vice president said Ukraine must have "sovereign independence."

**China's Central Bank Signals Policy Adjustments Amid Rising Global Risks**

The People's Bank of China said it will adjust the pace and intensity of its policymaking based on economic and financial conditions at home and abroad.

**Singapore Projects Modest Trade Growth Amid Tariff Uncertainties**

Slowdowns in Singapore's major trading partners would mean softer demand for its exports, with trade disruptions standing to deeply affect the small, open economy.

**How Republicans calling for smaller government could use the Fed's balance sheet to wield more power**

The hole in the Federal Reserve's balance sheet is getting some attention from lawmakers.

**Trump Layoffs Hit Federal Workers With Less Than a Year on Job**

The latest cuts focus on roughly 200,000 employees classified as probationary workers, including staffers at the Forest Service and the Energy Department.

**Australian Central Bank's Rate Call Finely Balanced**

The outcome of next week's Reserve Bank of Australia policy meeting is more finely balanced than what is implied by pricing in money markets, according to a former senior manager at the central bank.

**White House Targets Canada's Digital Tax in Reciprocal Tariff Plan**

The White House said Canada, along with France, both levy digital taxes, and they cost U.S. firms $2 billion a year.

**Bitcoin could see $23 billion inflow if these 18 states pass bills to establish crypto reserves**

If all 20 bills introduced in 18 states to establish state-level bitcoin reserves are enacted, it could potentially lead to the buying of more than $23 billion worth of bitcoin - or some 247,000 bitcoins in total - and drive up the crypto's price.

**Trump Orders Federal Agencies to Study Reciprocal Tariffs**

The president's memo asks agencies for more details on how to adjust U.S. tariffs to reflect the duties imposed by other nations.

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250214003694:0-news-highlights-top-global-markets-news-of-the-day-friday-at-3-am-et/)
