---
title: "Goldman Sachs Ends Diversity Board Push for IPOS — WSJ"
date: "2025-02-12 04:11:00"
summary: "By Corrie DriebuschGoldman Sachs is ending its policy that mandated companies have a diverse board for the bank to take them public.The rule, a version of which was implemented in 2020, had said the bank would only underwrite the initial public offerings for companies in the U.S. and Western Europe..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Corrie Driebusch

Goldman Sachs is ending its policy that mandated companies have a diverse board for the bank to take them public.

The rule, a version of which was implemented in 2020, had said the bank would only underwrite the initial public offerings for companies in the U.S. and Western Europe if they had two diverse board members, with one of those being a woman.

President Trump has made slashing DEI programs a priority since taking office, and companies have been finding themselves in the crosshairs of activists who want to dismantle diversity, equity and inclusion efforts.

The National Center for Public Policy Research has called on Goldman to conduct a racial-discrimination audit of its DEI policies, The Wall Street Journal previously reported.

Late last year, a federal appeals court struck down Nasdaq's board-diversity rules, which aimed to set racial and gender targets for the boards of its listed companies.

"As a result of legal developments related to board diversity requirements, we ended our formal board diversity policy," Goldman spokesman Tony Fratto said in a statement. "We continue to believe that successful boards benefit from diverse backgrounds and perspectives, and we will encourage them to take this approach."

The decision to end the policy was reported earlier by Bloomberg News.

This item is part of a Wall Street Journal live coverage event. The full stream can be found by searching P/WSJL (WSJ Live Coverage).

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250211009159:0/)
