---
title: "DeepSeek Will Bring AI to More Companies — Barrons.com"
date: "2025-02-08 07:38:00"
summary: "To the Editor: The recent advancements in artificial intelligence are great news (\" After DeepSeek, Tech Stocks Still Win. Here's How AI Is Getting Reset,\" Cover Story, Jan. 28). They put private model training and fine-tuning within reach for many more companies, even as they add complexity to the process...."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

To the Editor: The recent advancements in artificial intelligence are great news (" After DeepSeek, Tech Stocks Still Win. Here's How AI Is Getting Reset," Cover Story, Jan. 28). They put private model training and fine-tuning within reach for many more companies, even as they add complexity to the process. Jay Johnson On Barrons.com

Black Swan Circling

To the Editor: Last week, Wall Street was hit hard by news of DeepSeek's apparent black swan announcement. However, as Tae Kim reported, DeepSeek published its results toward the end of December (" Wall Street Got DeepSeek All Wrong. Why It's a Boon for Big Tech, Especially Nvidia," Tech Trader, Jan. 27). Missing from public discourse is how this pivotal development was completely overlooked by markets for weeks. It seems that the black swan had been circling overhead for weeks and no one bothered to look up.

Tom Routliffe Wakefield, R.I.

Going Nuclear

To the Editor: As a veteran of the nuclear-power industry, I would be wary of the nuclear start-ups (" DeepSeek Hit Energy Stocks Like Vistra. Many Are Still Pricey," Jan. 30). No company other than a regulated utility has ever built a nuclear plant in the U.S. The start-ups and their investors have no idea what they are about to encounter. I would be surprised if they accomplish half of what they promise. They are running on hype and will soon be exposed.

Edward Bohn On Barrons.com

Recession Logic

To the Editor: I agree with Andy Serwer's reporting in Up & Down Wall Street (" The Recession That Never Was Could Be Coming This Year," Jan. 31). If "North Korea were to bomb Russia" and if President Donald Trump is "overdoing it" with tariffs, and if "we curtail all...immigration," and if Trump's inflation is as bad as former President Joe Biden's, and if we kill another third of our chicken flock, and if AI investment is "mostly for naught," and if a drop in the money supply is significant, well, we might have a recession in 2025. Hard to argue with that logic.

Bob Barcell Fort Collins, Colo.

Don't Think Twice

To the Editor: Regarding " The Stock Market Is Driving the Economy. How Long Will That Last?" (The Economy, Jan. 31): Of course a rising stock market affects personal spending. When your account is up $30,000 in a day, you don't think twice about getting a better room at the hotel. You act like Diamond Jim Brady. You tip the bellhop $20 instead of $5. It has been 16 years since 2009 and Top Ramen. Party on, folks!

Ray Noack On Barrons.com

Send letters to: mail@barrons.com. To be considered for publication, correspondence must bear the writer's name, address, and phone number. Letters are subject to editing.

This content was created by Barron's, which is operated by Dow Jones & Co. Barron's is published independently from Dow Jones Newswires and The Wall Street Journal.

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250207011531:0/)
