---
title: "Energy & Utilities Roundup: Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-12 01:20:00"
summary: "The latest Market Talks covering Energy and Utilities. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires at 4:20 ET, 12:20 ET and 16:50 ET.0916 ET - Crude futures are rising for a third consecutive session, supported by reports of lower Russian production and tensions between Israel and Hamas over their cease-fire agreement...."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The latest Market Talks covering Energy and Utilities. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires at 4:20 ET, 12:20 ET and 16:50 ET.

0916 ET - Crude futures are rising for a third consecutive session, supported by reports of lower Russian production and tensions between Israel and Hamas over their cease-fire agreement. The implications of trade tariffs remain an issue with the U.S. imposing 25% duties on all steel and aluminum imports. "The focus on reduced production rates in Russia, and a more optimistic tone in U.S. and other developed market indices helped crude break the downtrend," Pepperstone's Chris Weston says in a note. A mix of short covering and organic buying suggests crude had reached a near-term low, he adds. Benchmarks WTI rises 1.4% to $73.34 a barrel and Brent is up 1.5% at $77.01 a barrel. (anthony.harrup@wsj.com)

0548 ET - BP recognizes that it has work to do to improve investor confidence, Quilter Cheviot's Maurizio Carulli writes. The company is reviewing its capital expenditure and share buyback policy. The British oil and gas company's poor share price performance in 2024 has dragged on shareholder confidence, the analyst adds. As returns come into focus, BP's guidance for divestments worth $3 billion in 2025 can be viewed as a positive, he adds. Shares trade up 0.2% to 466 pence. (adam.whittaker@wsj.com)

0517 ET - Aker Solutions reported fourth quarter results that were in line overall, as sales came in ahead but margins were weighed by losses at legacy projects, RBC Capital Markets analyst Victoria McCulloch writes. The company received its first dividend payment from the One Subsea joint venture of 77 million Norwegian kroner, and ended the year with 2.86 billion kroner of cash having also paid out 10 billion kroner in special dividends during the quarter. Aker Solutions expects full-year revenue in 2025 of between 50 billion and 55 billion kroner with EBITDA margins of 7%-7.5%. That compares to current consensus expectations of 51.7 billion in revenue and 7.3% EBITDA margins. Shares rise 3.4% to 33.80 kroner. (dominic.chopping@wsj.com)

0505 ET - BP's outlook for early this year is uninspiring, Interactive Investor's Head of Markets Richard Hunter writes. BP expects to report lower upstream production and volumes in the first quarter of 2025. Meanwhile, investors are confused about BP's strategy and wait to see whether its change in direction will result in reduced investment in renewable energy assets, which have proved to be unprofitable, he adds. Shares trade up 0.3% at 466.50 pence. (adam.whittaker@wsj.com)

0437 ET - BP's quarterly profit fell to a four-year low as seasonal weakness, refining margins and maintenance worked dragged on its results, Derren Nathan, head of equity research at Hargreaves Lansdown, writes. Much of this was well trailed in BP's performance update so investors shouldn't be too surprised, he adds. As the British energy giant updates on its strategy later this month, activist investor Elliott Investment Management will be examining the returns profile on BP's assets, he adds. BP's shares trade up 0.3% at 46.64 pounds and are up nearly 20% over the year to date. (adam.whittaker@wsj.com)

0319 ET - BP's forward-looking guidance is a little soft compared with market expectations, RBC Capital Markets analysts Biraj Borkhataria and Adnan Dhanani write. The British energy major expects first-quarter hydrocarbon production to fall by around 90,000 oil equivalent barrels a day due to divestments. However, investors had expected a production increase, they write. BP's 2025 corporate cost guidance of around $1 billion is roughly $200 million higher than consensus, they add. Shares trade up 0.4% at 467 pence. (adam.whittaker@wsj.com)

1526 ET - Crude futures gain ground after falling for three straight weeks as markets shrug off President Trump's announcement of tariffs on steel and aluminum imports into the U.S., while disputes between Israel and Hamas over their cease-fire agreement rekindles some of the geopolitical risk premium recently absent from the market. Israel's declaring Hamas in violation of the ceasefire for postponing the next planned hostage release added to oil's gains, says Mizuho's Robert Yawger. He notes that the rally comes amid builds in U.S. crude stocks as refineries slow down for maintenance, "generally the softest time of the year for energy demand." WTI settles up 1.9% at $72.32 a barrel, and Brent rises 1.6% to $75.87. (anthony.harrup@wsj.com)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250211008210:0/)
