---
title: "HYSTER-YALE DECLARES QUARTERLY DIVIDEND"
date: "2025-02-13 01:43:00"
summary: "HYSTER-YALE DECLARES QUARTERLY DIVIDENDPR NewswireCLEVELAND, Feb. 12, 2025CLEVELAND, Feb. 12, 2025 /PRNewswire/ — Hyster-Yale, Inc. announced today that the Board of Directors declared a regular cash dividend of 35 cents per share. The dividend is payable on both the Class A and Class B Common Stock and will be paid..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

HYSTER-YALE DECLARES QUARTERLY DIVIDEND

PR Newswire

CLEVELAND, Feb. 12, 2025

CLEVELAND, Feb. 12, 2025 /PRNewswire/ — Hyster-Yale, Inc. announced today that the Board of Directors declared a regular cash dividend of 35 cents per share. The dividend is payable on both the Class A and Class B Common Stock and will be paid March 14, 2025, to stockholders of record at the close of business on February 28, 2025.

About Hyster-Yale, Inc.

Hyster-Yale, Inc., headquartered in Cleveland, Ohio, is a globally integrated company offering a full line of lift trucks and solutions, including attachments and hydrogen fuel cell power products aimed at meeting the specific materials handling needs of its customers. Hyster-Yale's vision is to transform the way the world moves materials from Port to Home and deliver on its customer promises of: (1) thoroughly understanding customer applications and offering optimal solutions that will improve productivity at the lowest cost of ownership, and (2) providing exceptional customer care to create increasing value from initial engagement through the product lifecycle.

The Company's wholly owned operating subsidiary, Hyster-Yale Materials Handling, Inc., designs, engineers, manufactures, sells and services a comprehensive line of lift trucks, attachments and aftermarket parts marketed globally primarily under the Hyster(R) and Yale(R) brand names. Subsidiaries of Hyster-Yale include Bolzoni S.p.A., a leading worldwide producer of attachments, forks and lift tables marketed under the Bolzoni(R) , Auramo(R) and Meyer(R) brand names and Nuvera Fuel Cells, LLC, an alternative-power technology company focused on fuel cell stacks and engines. Hyster-Yale also has an unconsolidated joint venture in Japan (Sumitomo NACCO). For more information about Hyster-Yale and its subsidiaries, visit the Company's website at www.hyster-yale.com.

\*\*\*

View original content to download multimedia:https://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/hyster-yale-declares-quarterly-dividend-302375063.html

SOURCE Hyster-Yale, Inc.

/CONTACT: FOR FURTHER INFORMATION, CONTACT: Andrea Sejba, (440) 449-9611

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250212010965:0/)
