---
title: "Asian Stock Markets Mixed, Most Base Metals Rise on Trump's Steel, Aluminum Tariff Talk — Update"
date: "2025-02-10 11:23:00"
summary: "By Ronnie HaruiAsian equity markets were mixed while most base metal prices rose as investors and traders weighed U.S. President Trump's pledge to impose tariffs on steel and aluminum imports.Trump said he plans to impose 25% tariffs against all steel and aluminum entering the U.S. on Monday. He also said..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Ronnie Harui

Asian equity markets were mixed while most base metal prices rose as investors and traders weighed U.S. President Trump's pledge to impose tariffs on steel and aluminum imports.

Trump said he plans to impose 25% tariffs against all steel and aluminum entering the U.S. on Monday. He also said he plans to announce a series of reciprocal tariffs on Tuesday or Wednesday.

On Friday, Trump said reciprocal tariffs were forthcoming--possibly against imports from China, Japan, the European Union and Taiwan, among others that already impose tariffs against American goods.

Hong Kong's Hang Seng Index climbed 1.5% and Singapore's FTSE Straits Times Index rose 0.6% Monday morning. Japan's Nikkei Stock Average was 0.1% lower midday after swinging between mild gains and losses, and the FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI declined 0.2%.

On the London Metal Exchange, the three-month aluminum futures contract gained 0.6% to $2,634.50 a metric ton, three-month copper futures advanced 1.2% to $9,390.50 a ton, while three-month nickel futures shed 0.5% to $15,725.00 a ton.

South Korean steelmakers pared steep early losses after Trump's new tariff plan, with Posco Holdings and Hyundai Steel recently down 1.5% and 2.5%, respectively.

"Our estimates suggest that the economic impact from potential U.S. tariffs on steel and aluminum on emerging Asia is likely to be relatively limited," Barclays's FICC research team said in a note. "This would be consistent with the 2018 experience when U.S. tariffs on steel and aluminum did not appear to significantly derail emerging Asia exports," they said.

The U.S. dollar strengthened against most other Group of 10 and Asian currencies, aided by possible demand for the greenback as a safe-haven asset. The ICE U.S. Dollar Index rose 0.4% to 108.42. The dollar climbed 0.5% to 152.11 against the yen, gained 0.2% to 33.88 versus the Thai baht and edged 0.1% higher to 1.3565 against the Singapore dollar.

"Tariff developments were supportive of the U.S. dollar," Taylor Nugent, senior economist for markets at National Australia Bank, said in commentary. "The move would impose tariffs on American imports equal to rates that trading partners impose on American exports."

* Kwanwoo Jun contributed to this article.

Write to Ronnie Harui at ronnie.harui@wsj.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250209001359:0/)
