---
title: "Keyera Quarterly Earnings Driven Higher by Liquids-Infrastructure Segment"
date: "2025-02-13 19:39:00"
summary: "By Robb M. StewartCanadian energy-infrastructure company Keyera logged a jump in quarterly earnings thanks to record realized-margin contributions from its liquids-infrastructure segment.Keyera, which runs a largely fee-for-service business gathering, processing and transporting natural gas and gas liquids, reported net earnings of 88.9 million Canadian dollars ($62.1 million), or C$0.39 a..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Robb M. Stewart

Canadian energy-infrastructure company Keyera logged a jump in quarterly earnings thanks to record realized-margin contributions from its liquids-infrastructure segment.

Keyera, which runs a largely fee-for-service business gathering, processing and transporting natural gas and gas liquids, reported net earnings of 88.9 million Canadian dollars ($62.1 million), or C$0.39 a share, for the fourth quarter, against C$49.2 million, or C$0.21, a year earlier.

Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization on an adjusted basis fell to C$312.7 million from C$339.2 million. That beat the C$288.3 million that analysts polled by FactSet were expecting.

Funds from operations dropped 22% to C$227.3 million for the three months.

Keyera said its liquids-infrastructure arm achieved a quarterly margin of C$153 million, up from C$130 million in the same period a year earlier, after the continued steady ramp-up of the KAPS pipeline in Alberta, record quarterly and annual margin contributions from fractionation and storage services at its KFS unit and record deliveries from its condensate system.

The Calgary, Alberta, company's operations are focused in key producing areas of the Western Canada Sedimentary Basin and the Edmonton-Fort Saskatchewan energy hub. Last week, Keyera signed a long-term commercial agreement with AltaGas giving it access to an exports platform and contracting fractionation services in exchange for access to Keyera's rail, storage and logistics infrastructure.

Write to Robb M. Stewart at robb.stewart@wsj.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250213006507:0/)
