---
title: "Global Equities Roundup: Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-10 17:39:00"
summary: "The latest Market Talks covering Equities. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.0939 GMT - Asia's strong economic momentum creates the potential for robust earnings growth for companies in key markets and sectors, including artificial intelligence-related technology in Taiwan and Korea, as well as banking in India, according..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The latest Market Talks covering Equities. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.

0939 GMT - Asia's strong economic momentum creates the potential for robust earnings growth for companies in key markets and sectors, including artificial intelligence-related technology in Taiwan and Korea, as well as banking in India, according to analysts at PineBridge Investments. Between Taiwan's and Korea's technology sectors, the analysts "tend to favor" Taiwanese companies, which they view as "more nimble and able to provide AI solutions to their customers", they say. The analysts add that they are "cautiously optimistic and see selective opportunities and continued competitive valuations in China." (tracy.qu@wsj.com)

0937 GMT - Singapore's FTSE Straits Times Index rose 0.4% to close at 3875.13, after hitting a record intraday high of 3921.30 earlier in the session. Gains were supported by the city-state's three major lenders testing record-high share prices. OCBC and UOB closed shy of intraday highs, advancing 0.35% and 1.0%, respectively. DBS Group climbed 1.6% after posting a record annual profit and announcing additional shareholder returns for 2025. Among decliners, Hongkong Land fell 3.7%, Frasers Logistics & Commercial Trust slid 2.3% and Singapore Exchange was 2.1% lower. (kimberley.kao@wsj.com)

0934 GMT - European steel and aluminum stocks mostly edge lower in early trading amid expectations that the US will place 25% tariffs on steel and aluminum imports. Among the biggest fallers are Austria's Voestalpine, with shares down 1.5%, and steelmaker ArcelorMittal, which trades 2.6% lower. In Germany, shares in steel company Salzgitter and Thyssenkrupp fall. Luxembourg-based stainless steelmaker Aperam trades 1.8% lower and shares in Finland-based Outokumpu fall slightly, too. Among Europe's aluminum producers, Norsk Hydro shares are 1.1% lower. (pierre.bertrand@wsj.com)

0923 GMT - The market is overly concerned about the impact of DeepSeek on AI server demand, at least for this year, Bernstein analysts write in a note. While DeepSeek may be new to investors, its achievement is not a total surprise to companies in the AI industry, they add. The declining training and inference costs in the generative AI sector are crucial for the mass adoption of this technology among consumers and enterprises, as well as for achieving AGI, they say. The recent sentiment correction in the AI supply chain occurred sooner than analysts had expected for 2H25, presenting a buying opportunity for some stocks, Bernstein says. (jiahui.huang@wsj.com; @ivy\_jiahuihuang)

0909 GMT - Talabat Holding's upcoming fourth-quarter results will likely be good, ING analyst Marc Hesselink says. The Dutch bank expects Delivery Hero's Middle East subsidiary to deliver revenue and Ebitda slightly above consensus. "The key point is to see if the strong growth and profitability trends of nine month of 2024 continued into the fourth quarter," Hesselink adds. Additionally, the company will probably reiterate its 2025 guidance, which includes continued high growth and margin improvement, he says. Shares are up 0.7% at 1.42 United Arab Emirates dirham. (najat.kantouar@wsj.com)

0908 GMT - Innovent Biologics' near-term stock performance may depend on the approval and sales of its potential blockbuster drug Mazdutide in 1H2025, according to Deutsche Bank Research analyst Cyrus Ng in a commentary. The biotech company's share price has rebounded 14% since January 25, outperforming its peers' average of 4.9% during the same period, Ng says. However, revenue growth slowed in Q4 compared to the previous quarter, although 2024 product sales remain in line with expectations, the analyst notes. Ng maintains a buy rating and a target price of HK$49.00. Shares were last up 0.3% at HK$36.35. (tracy.qu@wsj.com)

0905 GMT - Malaysia's Kuala Lumpur Composite Index ended 0.1% lower at 1589.95. The local market could experience a pull-back due to profit-taking early this week, following data signaling rising U.S. inflation and President Trump's tougher tariff stance, TA Securities analyst Stephen Soo said in a note. However, select stocks could benefit from supply-chain diversification amid ongoing U.S.-China trade tensions, providing rotational buying opportunities to sustain recovery momentum. Soo pegs the KLCI's support at 1550 and resistance at 1605. Among decliners, SD Guthrie was 2.2% lower and MISC Bhd. lost 2.0%. Meanwhile, Axiata Group added 3.2% and Sime Darby rose 1.8%. Malaysian markets will be closed Tuesday for the Thaipusam holiday. (yingxian.wong@wsj.com)

0856 GMT - Public Bank's dividend yield is forecast to exceed 5% from 2025 based on organic growth alone, with further room to raise the payout due to excess capital, CIMB Securities analyst Rachel Huang says in a note. Basel III rule changes could boost the lender's Common Equity Tier 1 ratio, implying room to right-size its capital, she says. Despite a MYR464 million goodwill impairment from its Hong Kong unit, the impact on Public Bank's estimated 2025 ROE and book value should be minimal, she says. The lender's reversal of pre-emptive provisions could further support dividend growth, she adds. CIMB maintains a buy rating on Public Bank and keeps its target price at MYR5.60. Shares are unchanged at MYR4.45. (yingxian.wong@wsj.com)

0849 GMT - Meiji Yasuda Life's deal with Legal & General America is expected to positively impact the Japanese insurer's credit profile, Fitch Ratings analysts say. The deal takes into account the strong position of L&G's Banner Life in the steadily expanding U.S. individual life insurance market and pension risk transfer business, as well as improved global diversification for Meiji Yasuda, the analysts note. Fitch expects the impact on Meiji Yasuda's capital adequacy and financial leverage to be minimal and manageable, citing its consolidated net assets and cash equivalents. The group's strong position in the Japanese life insurance market should also help maintain overall sound credit fundamentals. (fabiana.negrinochoa@wsj.com)

0844 GMT - Elliott Management could force BP to reorganize its business and make changes to its board after it was reported the hedge fund has built a stake in the British energy giant, Jefferies analysts Giacomo Romeo and Kai Ye Loh write. Elliott could look to remove BP Chairman Helge Lund at the next AGM in late April or early May, the analysts write. Increasing shareholder returns by maximizing free-cash-flow generation via reduced capex and increased divestments would be a key goal, they add. It may also seek to refocus BP's strategy on traditional oil and gas activities and reduce exposure to low-carbon assets, they add. Shares trade up 7.4% at 465 pence. This is BP's best one-day rise since summer 2023. (adam.whittaker@wsj.com)

0842 GMT - DBS Group's strong dividend yield will support its share price, Carmen Lee of OCBC Investment Research writes in a note. The Singapore lender delivered another year of record profit, raised its ordinary dividend and announced an additional capital return for 2025, Lee highlights. That reflects an attractive dividend yield of about 6.7%, higher than most Singapore dollar income-yielding assets, Lee says. Despite a more challenging external environment due to tariff threats and possible policy changes by major economies, Asia is likely to be more resilient than other regions, and DBS remains attractive, Lee says. She raises the fair value estimate on the bank to S$50.00 from S$43.60 while keeping a buy rating. Shares are 1.8% higher at S$45.50. (kimberley.kao@wsj.com)

0831 GMT - CAB Payments will likely make a strategic pivot this year following the departure of senior leadership members, Shore Capital's analyst Vivek Raja says. CFO and executive director Richard Hallett stepped down on Monday, following the departure of other senior management in the past year. Shore Capital maintains its buy recommendation on the stock, expecting the London-listed fintech to return to a meaningful growth trajectory, Raja says. Shares are down 1.3% at 0.62 pounds. (cristina.gallardo@wsj.com)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250210002293:0/)
