---
title: "Allison Transmission Announces Record Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2024 Results"
date: "2025-02-12 05:05:00"
summary: "(21:05 GMT) *Allison Transmission 4Q EPS $2.01 &gt;ALSN(21:05 GMT) *Allison Transmission 4Q Net $175M &gt;ALSN(21:05 GMT) *Allison Transmission 4Q Sales $796M &gt;ALSN(21:05 GMT) Press Release: Allison Transmission Announces Record Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2024 ResultsAllison Transmission Announces Record Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2024 ResultsPR NewswireINDIANAPOLIS, Feb. 11, 2025Record..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

**(21:05 GMT)** \*Allison Transmission 4Q EPS $2.01 >ALSN  
**(21:05 GMT)** \*Allison Transmission 4Q Net $175M >ALSN  
**(21:05 GMT)** \*Allison Transmission 4Q Sales $796M >ALSN  
**(21:05 GMT)** Press Release: Allison Transmission Announces Record Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2024 Results

Allison Transmission Announces Record Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2024 Results

PR Newswire

INDIANAPOLIS, Feb. 11, 2025

* Record fourth quarter net sales of $796 million, leading to all-time high full year net sales of $3.2 billion
* Record full year diluted EPS of $8.31, up 12% year over year

INDIANAPOLIS, Feb. 11, 2025 /PRNewswire/ — Allison Transmission Holdings Inc. today reported all-time high full year net sales of $3.2 billion, increasing 6 percent from 2023. Diluted EPS for the year increased 12 percent year over year to a record $8.31.

David S. Graziosi, Chair and Chief Executive Officer of Allison Transmission commented, "Closing out the year, unprecedented demand for Class 8 vocational vehicles persisted in the fourth quarter of 2024, leading to record full year net sales of $1.8 billion in our North America On-Highway end market. Driven by the realization of our growth initiatives, we achieved decade-high full year net sales in our Defense end market and all-time high full year net sales in our Outside North America On-Highway end market."

Graziosi continued, "In addition to notable top-line performance across multiple end markets, Allison's full year earnings per share increased 12 percent from 2023 to a company record diluted EPS of $8.31. In 2024, we returned cash to shareholders by increasing our quarterly dividend for the fifth consecutive year while repurchasing over $250 million of our common stock, representing over 3 percent of outstanding shares, and paying down $101 million of existing term loan debt. At the midpoint, we are guiding to another record revenue year for 2025 driven by price increases on certain products, increased demand for Tracked vehicle applications and robust North America vocational demand."

Full Year and Fourth Quarter Financial Highlights

Net sales for the year were $3,225 million. Year over year results were led by:

* A $223 million increase in net sales in the North America On-Highway end market principally driven by strength in demand for Class 8 vocational and medium-duty trucks and price increases on certain products
* A 28 percent increase in net sales in the Defense end market principally driven by increased demand for Tracked vehicle applications
* A $16 million increase in net sales in the Outside North America On-Highway end market principally driven by higher demand in Asia and price increases on certain products, partially offset by lower demand in Europe

Net income for the year was $731 million. Diluted EPS for the year was $8.31. Adjusted EBITDA, a non-GAAP financial measure, for the year was $1,165 million. Net cash provided by operating activities for the year was $801 million. Adjusted free cash flow, a non-GAAP financial measure, for the year was $658 million.

Net sales for the quarter were $796 million. Year over year results were led by:

* A 10 percent increase in net sales in the North America On-Highway end market principally driven by strength in demand for Class 8 vocational vehicles and price increases on certain products
* A 5 percent increase in net sales in the Service Parts, Support Equipment and Other end market principally driven by price increases on certain products
* An 8 percent increase in net sales in the Defense end market principally driven by increased demand for Tracked vehicle applications

Net income for the quarter was $175 million. Diluted EPS for the quarter was $2.01. Adjusted EBITDA for the quarter was $270 million. Net cash provided by operating activities for the quarter was $211 million. Adjusted free cash flow for the quarter was $136 million.

Full Year and Fourth Quarter Net Sales by End Market

```
   
                2024 Net Sales  Year over Year     Q4 2024 Net  Year over Year   
  End Market              ($M)   Variance ($M)      Sales ($M)   Variance ($M)   
--------------  --------------  --------------  --------------  --------------   
North America   
 On-Highway             $1,752            $223            $419             $39   
--------------  --------------  --------------  --------------  --------------   
North America   
 Off-Highway                $8           ($55)              $2            ($3)   
--------------  --------------  --------------  --------------  --------------   
Defense                   $212             $46             $68              $5   
--------------  --------------  --------------  --------------  --------------   
Outside North   
 America   
 On-Highway               $493             $16            $124            ($4)   
--------------  --------------  --------------  --------------  --------------   
Outside North   
 America   
 Off-Highway               $97            ($7)             $14           ($24)   
--------------  --------------  --------------  --------------  --------------   
Service Parts,   
 Support   
 Equipment &   
 Other                    $663           ($33)            $169              $8   
--------------  --------------  --------------  --------------  --------------   
Total Net   
 Sales                  $3,225            $190            $796             $21   
--------------  --------------  --------------  --------------  --------------   
 
```

Fourth Quarter Financial Results

Gross profit for the quarter was $373 million, an increase of $2 million from $371 million for the same period in 2023. The increase in gross profit was principally driven by price increases on certain products, partially offset by higher manufacturing expense.

Selling, general and administrative expenses for the quarter were $84 million, a decrease of $8 million from $92 million for the same period in 2023. The decrease was principally driven by lower intangible amortization expense.

Engineering — research and development expenses for the quarter were $54 million, flat from the same period in 2023.

Net income for the quarter was $175 million, an increase of $5 million from $170 million for the same period in 2023. The increase was principally driven by lower selling, general and administrative expenses, lower interest expense, net and higher gross profit, partially offset by unfavorable foreign exchange.

Net cash provided by operating activities was $211 million, a decrease of $27 million from $238 million for the same period in 2023. The decrease was principally driven by higher operating working capital funding requirements and higher cash income taxes.

Fourth Quarter Non-GAAP Financial Measures

Adjusted EBITDA for the quarter was $270 million, a decrease of $7 million from $277 million for the same period in 2023.

Adjusted free cash flow for the quarter was $136 million, a decrease of $50 million from $186 million for the same period in 2023. The decrease was driven by lower net cash provided by operating activities and higher capital expenditures.

Full Year 2025 Guidance

Allison expects 2025 net sales in the range of $3,200 to $3,300 million, net income in the range of $735 to $785 million, adjusted EBITDA in the range of $1,170 to $1,230 million, net cash provided by operating activities in the range of $800 to $860 million, capital expenditures in the range of $165 to $175 million, and adjusted free cash flow in the range of $635 to $685 million.

Conference Call and Webcast

The company will host a conference call at 5:00 p.m. EST on Tuesday, February 11, 2025 to discuss its fourth quarter 2024 results. The dial-in phone number for the conference call is +1-877-425-9470 and the international dial-in number is +1-201-389-0878. A live webcast of the conference call will also be available online at https://ir.allisontransmission.com.

For those unable to participate in the conference call, a replay will be available from 9:00 p.m. EST on February 11 until 11:59 p.m. EST on February 25. The replay dial-in phone number is +1-844-512-2921 and the international replay dial-in number is +1-412-317-6671. The replay passcode is 13751140.

About Allison Transmission

Allison Transmission is a leading designer and manufacturer of propulsion solutions for commercial and defense vehicles and the largest global manufacturer of medium- and heavy-duty fully automatic transmissions that Improve the Way the World Works. Allison products are used in a wide variety of applications, including on-highway vehicles (distribution, refuse, construction, fire and emergency), buses (school, transit and coach), motorhomes, off-highway vehicles and equipment (energy, mining, construction and agriculture) and defense vehicles (tactical wheeled and tracked). Founded in 1915, the company is headquartered in Indianapolis, Indiana, USA. With a presence in more than 150 countries, Allison has regional headquarters in the Netherlands, China and Brazil, manufacturing facilities in the USA, Hungary and India, as well as global engineering resources, including electrification engineering centers in Indianapolis, Indiana, Auburn Hills, Michigan and London in the United Kingdom. Allison also has more than 1,600 independent distributor and dealer locations worldwide. For more information, visit https://allisontransmission.com.

Forward-Looking Statements This press release contains forward-looking statements. The words "believe," "expect," "anticipate," "intend," "estimate" and other expressions that are predictions of or indicate future events and trends and that do not relate to historical matters identify forward-looking statements. You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. Although forward-looking statements reflect management's good faith beliefs, reliance should not be placed on forward-looking statements because they involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors, which may cause actual results, performance or achievements to differ materially from anticipated future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date the statements are made. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events, changed circumstances or otherwise. These forward-looking statements are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to: our participation in markets that are competitive; our ability to prepare for, respond to and successfully achieve our objectives relating to technological and market developments, competitive threats and changing customer needs, including with respect to electric hybrid and fully electric commercial vehicles; increases in cost, disruption of supply or shortage of labor, freight, raw materials, energy or components used to manufacture or transport our products or those of our customers or suppliers, including as a result of geopolitical risks, wars and pandemics; global economic volatility; general economic and industry conditions, including the risk of recession; labor strikes, work stoppages or similar labor disputes, which could significantly disrupt our operations or those of our principal customers or suppliers; the highly cyclical industries in which certain of our end users operate; uncertainty in the global regulatory and business environments in which we operate; the concentration of our net sales in our top five customers and the loss of any one of these; the failure of markets outside North America to increase adoption of fully automatic transmissions; the success of our research and development efforts, the outcome of which is uncertain; U.S. and foreign defense spending; risks associated with our international operations, including acts of war and increased trade protectionism; the discovery of defects in our products, resulting in delays in new model launches, recall campaigns and/or increased warranty costs and reduction in future sales or damage to our brand and reputation; our ability to identify, consummate and effectively integrate acquisitions and collaborations; and risks related to our indebtedness.

Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures

This press release contains information about Allison's financial results and forward-looking estimates of financial results which are not presented in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States ("GAAP"). Such non-GAAP financial measures are reconciled to their closest GAAP financial measures at the end of this press release. Non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for our reported results prepared in accordance with GAAP and, as calculated, may not be comparable to other similarly titled measures of other companies.

We use Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA as a percent of net sales to measure our operating profitability. We believe that Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA as a percent of net sales provide management, investors and creditors with useful measures of the operational results of our business and increase the period-to-period comparability of our operating profitability and comparability with other companies. Adjusted EBITDA as a percent of net sales is also used in the calculation of management's incentive compensation program. The most directly comparable GAAP measure to Adjusted EBITDA is Net income. The most directly comparable GAAP measure to Adjusted EBITDA as a percent of net sales is Net Income as a percent of net sales. Adjusted EBITDA is calculated as the earnings before interest expense, net, income tax expense, amortization of intangible assets, depreciation of property, plant and equipment and other adjustments as defined by Allison Transmission, Inc.'s, the Company's wholly-owned subsidiary, Second Amended and Restated Credit Agreement. Adjusted EBITDA as a percent of net sales is calculated as Adjusted EBITDA divided by net sales.

We use Adjusted Free Cash Flow to evaluate the amount of cash generated by our business that, after the capital investment needed to maintain and grow our business and certain mandatory debt service requirements, can be used for repayment of debt, stockholder distributions and strategic opportunities, including investing in our business. We believe that Adjusted Free Cash Flow enhances the understanding of the cash flows of our business for management, investors and creditors. Adjusted Free Cash Flow is also used in the calculation of management's incentive compensation program. The most directly comparable GAAP measure to Adjusted Free Cash Flow is Net cash provided by operating activities. Adjusted Free Cash Flow is calculated as Net cash provided by operating activities, after additions of long-lived assets.

Attachments

* Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations
* Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets
* Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
* Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP Financial Measures
* Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP Financial Measures for Full Year Guidance Allison Transmission Holdings, Inc. Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations (Unaudited, dollars in millions, except per share data) Three months ended December 31, Years ended December 31, 2024 2023 2024 2023 ---------------------- ---------------------- ---------------------- ----------------------

```
Net sales         $                  796  $                  775   $               3,225   $               3,035   
Cost of sales                        423                     404                   1,696                   1,565   
                  ----------------------  ----------------------  ----------------------  ----------------------   
Gross profit                         373                     371                   1,529                   1,470   
Selling, general   
 and   
 administrative                       84                      92                     337                     357   
Engineering -   
 research and   
 development                          54                      54                     200                     194   
                  ----------------------  ----------------------  ----------------------  ----------------------   
Operating income                     235                     225                     992                     919   
Interest   
 expense, net                       (21)                    (24)                    (89)                   (107)   
Other (expense)   
 income, net                         (4)                       5                     (6)                      15   
                  ----------------------  ----------------------  ----------------------  ----------------------   
Income before   
 income taxes                        210                     206                     897                     827   
Income tax   
 expense                            (35)                    (36)                   (166)                   (154)   
                  ----------------------  ----------------------  ----------------------  ----------------------   
Net income        $                  175  $                  170  $                  731  $                  673   
                  ======================  ======================  ======================  ======================   
Basic earnings   
 per share   
 attributable to   
 common   
 stockholders     $                 2.03  $                 1.91  $                 8.40  $                 7.48   
                  ======================  ======================  ======================  ======================   
Diluted earnings   
 per share   
 attributable to   
 common   
 stockholders     $                 2.01  $                 1.91  $                 8.31  $                 7.40   
                  ======================  ======================  ======================  ======================   
   
   
   
                Allison Transmission Holdings, Inc.   
               Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets   
                 (Unaudited, dollars in millions)   
   
                            December 31,           December 31,   
                                2024                  2023   
                       ----------------------  -------------------   
 ASSETS   
 Current Assets   
    Cash and cash   
     equivalents       $                  781  $               555   
    Accounts   
     receivable,   
     net                                  360                  356   
    Inventories                           315                  276   
    Other current   
     assets                                82                   63   
                       ----------------------  -------------------   
 Total Current   
  Assets                                1,538                1,250   
   
 Property, plant   
  and equipment,   
  net                                     803                  774   
 Intangible   
  assets, net                             822                  833   
 Goodwill                               2,075                2,076   
 Other non-current   
  assets                                   98                   92   
                       ----------------------  -------------------   
 TOTAL ASSETS           $               5,336    $           5,025   
                       ======================  ===================   
   
 LIABILITIES   
 Current   
 Liabilities   
    Accounts   
     payable           $                  212  $               210   
    Product   
     warranty   
     liability                             31                   32   
    Current portion   
     of long-term   
     debt                                   5                    6   
    Deferred   
     revenue                               41                   41   
    Other current   
     liabilities                          217                  212   
                       ----------------------  -------------------   
 Total Current   
  Liabilities                             506                  501   
   
 Product warranty   
  liability                                36                   27   
 Deferred revenue                          95                   89   
 Long-term debt                         2,395                2,497   
 Deferred income   
  taxes                                   501                  519   
 Other non-current   
  liabilities                             152                  159   
                       ----------------------  -------------------   
 TOTAL LIABILITIES                      3,685                3,792   
   
 TOTAL   
  STOCKHOLDERS'   
  EQUITY                                1,651                1,233   
                       ----------------------  -------------------   
 TOTAL LIABILITIES   
  & STOCKHOLDERS'   
  EQUITY                $               5,336    $           5,025   
                       ======================  ===================   
   
   
   
                                                Allison Transmission Holdings, Inc.   
                                          Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows   
                                                 (Unaudited, dollars in millions)   
   
   
   
                                     Three months ended December 31,                          Years ended December 31,   
                                    2024                       2023                       2024                      2023   
                          -------------------------  -------------------------  ------------------------  ------------------------   
   
 Net cash provided by   
  operating   
  activities                 $                  211     $                  238    $                  801    $                  784   
   
 Net cash used for   
  investing   
  activities (a)                               (77)                       (58)                     (147)                     (129)   
   
 Net cash used for   
  financing   
  activities                                  (140)                      (127)                     (427)                     (332)   
   
 Effect of exchange   
  rate changes on   
  cash                                          (1)                          1                       (1)                         -   
                          -------------------------  -------------------------  ------------------------  ------------------------   
   
 Net (decrease)   
  increase in cash and   
  cash equivalents                              (7)                         54                       226                       323   
   
 Cash and cash   
  equivalents at   
  beginning of period                           788                        501                       555                       232   
                          -------------------------  -------------------------  ------------------------  ------------------------   
 Cash and cash   
  equivalents at end   
  of period                  $                  781     $                  555    $                  781    $                  555   
                          =========================  =========================  ========================  ========================   
 Supplemental   
 disclosures:   
          Income   
           taxes   
           paid            $                   (40)   $                   (30)   $                 (190)   $                 (194)   
          Interest   
           paid            $                   (33)   $                   (36)   $                 (124)   $                 (131)   
          Interest   
           received   
           from   
           interest   
           rate swaps     $                       2  $                       4  $                     12  $                     12   
   
 (a) Additions of   
  long-lived assets        $                   (75)   $                   (52)   $                 (143)   $                 (125)   
   
   
   
                           Allison Transmission Holdings, Inc.   
                  Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP Financial Measures   
                            (Unaudited, dollars in millions)   
   
                                   Three months ended                Years ended   
                                      December 31,                   December 31,   
                                  2024           2023            2024           2023   
                             --------------  -------------  --------------  -------------   
Net income (GAAP)            $          175  $         170  $          731  $         673   
plus:   
   Income tax expense                    35             36             166            154   
   Depreciation of   
    property, plant and   
    equipment                            29             28             111            109   
   Interest expense, net                 21             24              89            107   
   Amortization of   
    intangible assets                     2             12              10             45   
   Stock-based   
    compensation expense   
    (a)                                   6              5              26             22   
   UAW Local 933 contract   
    signing incentives   
    (b)                            -               -                    14        -   
   Unrealized loss on   
    marketable securities   
    (c)                                   1              2               9              1   
   Pension plan   
    settlement loss (d)            -               -                     4        -   
   Technology-related   
    investments loss   
    (gain) (e)                            1        -                     2            (3)   
   Other (f)                       -               -                     3        -   
                             --------------  -------------  --------------  -------------   
Adjusted EBITDA   
 (Non-GAAP)                  $          270  $         277   $       1,165   $      1,108   
                             ==============  =============  ==============  =============   
Net sales (GAAP)             $          796  $         775   $       3,225   $      3,035   
Net income as a percent   
 of Net sales (GAAP)                 22.0 %         21.9 %          22.7 %         22.2 %   
Adjusted EBITDA as a   
 percent of Net sales   
 (Non-GAAP)                          33.9 %         35.7 %          36.1 %         36.5 %   
   
Net cash provided by   
 operating activities   
 (GAAP)                      $          211  $         238  $          801  $         784   
Deductions to reconcile   
to Adjusted free cash   
flow:   
   Additions of   
    long-lived assets                  (75)           (52)           (143)          (125)   
                             --------------  -------------  --------------  -------------   
Adjusted free cash flow   
 (Non-GAAP)                  $          136  $         186  $          658  $         659   
                             ==============  =============  ==============  =============   
   
   
   
(a)  Represents stock-based compensation expense (recorded in Cost of sales,   
     Selling, general and administrative, and Engineering -- research and   
     development).   
(b)  Represents non-recurring incentives (recorded in Cost of sales, Selling,   
     general and administrative, and Engineering -- research and development)   
     to eligible employees as a result of International Union, United   
     Automobile, Aerospace and Agricultural Implement Workers of America   
     ("UAW") Local 933 represented employees ratifying a four-year collective   
     bargaining agreement effective through November 2027.   
(c)  Represents losses (recorded in Other (expense) income, net) related to an   
     investment in the common stock of Jing-Jin Electric Technologies Co.   
     Ltd.   
(d)  Represents a non-cash settlement charge (recorded in Other (expense)   
     income, net) for a pro rata portion of previously unrecognized pension   
     plan actuarial net losses associated with the pension risk transfer of a   
     portion of our salaried defined benefit pension plan obligations to a   
     third-party insurance company.   
(e)  Represents losses (gains) (recorded in Other (expense) income, net)   
     related to investments in co-development agreements to expand our   
     position in propulsion solution technologies.   
(f)  Represents other adjustments as defined by the Second Amended and   
     Restated Credit Agreement dated as of March 29, 2019 as amended.   
   
   
                  Allison Transmission Holdings, Inc.   
  Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP Financial Measures for Full Year   
                                Guidance   
                    (Unaudited, dollars in millions)   
   
                                               Guidance   
                                    Year Ending December 31, 2025   
                                      Low                   High   
                              --------------------  --------------------   
Net income (GAAP)             $                735  $                785   
plus:   
   
     Income tax expense                        185                   195   
     Depreciation of   
      property, plant and   
      equipment                                123                   123   
     Interest expense, net                      91                    91   
     Amortization of   
      intangible assets                          7                     7   
     Stock-based   
      compensation expense   
      (a)                                       29                    29   
   
   
Adjusted EBITDA (Non-GAAP)      $            1,170    $            1,230   
                              ====================  ====================   
   
Net cash provided by   
 operating activities   
 (GAAP)                       $                800  $                860   
Deductions to reconcile to   
Adjusted free cash flow:   
   Additions of long-lived   
    assets                    $              (165)  $              (175)   
Adjusted free cash flow   
 (Non-GAAP)                   $                635  $                685   
                              ====================  ====================   
   
   
   
   
(a)  Represents stock-based compensation expense (recorded in Cost of sales,   
     Selling, general and administrative, and Engineering -- research and   
     development).   
 
```

View original content to download multimedia:https://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/allison-transmission-announces-record-fourth-quarter-and-full-year-2024-results-302373908.html

SOURCE Allison Transmission Holdings Inc.

/CONTACT: Jackie Bolles, Executive Director, Treasury and Investor Relations, ir@allisontransmission.com, (317) 242-7073, or Claire Gregory, Director, Global External Communications, claire.gregory@allisontransmission.com, (317) 694-2065

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250211009863:0/)
