---
title: "Nasdaq Leads Indexes Higher; Metals Stocks Jump — WSJ"
date: "2025-02-11 05:25:00"
summary: "By Alexander Osipovich and Joe WallaceU.S. stocks rose Monday as investors shrugged off the risk that President Trump's planned steel and aluminum tariffs could ignite a trade war.The Nasdaq Composite gained 1%, leading major indexes. The S&amp;P 500 climbed 0.7%, while the Dow Jones Industrial Average added 0.4%.Steelmaker stocks were..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Alexander Osipovich and Joe Wallace

U.S. stocks rose Monday as investors shrugged off the risk that President Trump's planned steel and aluminum tariffs could ignite a trade war.

The Nasdaq Composite gained 1%, leading major indexes. The S&P 500 climbed 0.7%, while the Dow Jones Industrial Average added 0.4%.

Steelmaker stocks were among the biggest winners after Trump said over the weekend that he would impose 25% tariffs on steel and aluminum imports, and hinted at reciprocal import duties against U.S. trading partners.

U.S. Steel advanced 4.8%, while Alcoa rose 2.2%. Most-active Midwest U.S. steel futures jumped nearly 6% to settle at their highest level since April.

In currency markets, the U.S. dollar strengthened against the Mexican peso, the Japanese yen and the Canadian dollar. Canada is the biggest exporter of steel and aluminum to the U.S.

Gold extended its record-setting rally, with front-month futures rising 1.6% to settle at $2,914.30 a troy ounce. The precious metal has benefited from purchasing by central banks and investors, as well as its status as a perceived haven from global distress.

Broadly, though, global markets were calm. Tariff fatigue might be part of the explanation. After Trump's zig-zags over tariffs on Canada, Mexico and Colombia in recent weeks, many investors think the president sees trade taxes as a negotiating tool.

"The more the president talks about these tariffs without following through, or they turn out to be not as impactful as originally perceived, the more the markets are going to start discounting his comments," said Christopher Smart, managing partner of Arbroath Group, a geopolitical risk consulting firm.

McDonald's shares climbed 4.7% on the back of its latest earnings report, making it the best-performing stock in the Dow. Strength in the restaurant giant's international business helped offset a decline in U.S. same-store sales.

Other companies set to report results this week include Coca-Cola, CVS Health and brokerage Robinhood Markets. Of the S&P 500 members that reported their 2024 fourth-quarter results through Friday, 77% beat analysts' earnings expectations, according to FactSet.

Major stock markets in Europe and Asia rose Monday, in another sign of investors taking a wait-and-see attitude toward Trump's tariffs. The pan-continental Stoxx Europe 600 advanced 0.6% to set a new record. BP shares led the index, gaining 7.4% after activist investor Elliott Management took a stake.

In Hong Kong, the Hang Seng Index climbed 1.8%, with shares of Chinese e-commerce giant Alibaba up 5.5%. In mainland China, the Shanghai Composite Index rose 0.6%.

This item is part of a Wall Street Journal live coverage event. The full stream can be found by searching P/WSJL (WSJ Live Coverage).

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250210010525:0/)
