---
title: "Elon Musk's Wealth Has Dropped Nearly $54 Billion This Year. He's Still Very Rich. — Barrons.com"
date: "2025-02-13 00:29:00"
summary: "Abby SchultzElon Musk's position as the head of a U.S. government efficiency effort doesn't appear to be good for his net worth, at least for now.Musk's wealth sank nearly $16 billion, or 3.7%, on Tuesday from a day earlier, to $379 billion, according to the Bloomberg Billionaires Index. Since the..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Abby Schultz

Elon Musk's position as the head of a U.S. government efficiency effort doesn't appear to be good for his net worth, at least for now.

Musk's wealth sank nearly $16 billion, or 3.7%, on Tuesday from a day earlier, to $379 billion, according to the Bloomberg Billionaires Index. Since the start of the year, the Tesla CEO has lost a whopping $53.7 billion, or 12.4% of his wealth, Bloomberg reported.

A big reason for the losses is the performance of Tesla stock, which has dropped 16% in value over the previous five days as of the start of trading on Wednesday. Barron's is reporting that shares of the electric-car maker are down about 23% since President Donald Trump was inaugurated on Jan. 20, and 32% from a postelection record high of $480 a share in mid-December.

Analysts cite several potential reasons for the drop, including Musk's preoccupation with his new job as a special government employee, where he and his young staff have worked around the clock slashing jobs and ending government contracts at the U.S. Agency for International Development, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, and the Education Department.

Other reasons include an unsolicited $97 billion bid by Musk and a consortium of investors to buy the nonprofit that owns artificial intelligence company OpenAI, the maker of ChatGPT, and a competitor to Musk's xAI. And the EV-maker is facing heightened competition from China's electric-car maker BYD.

The initial surge in Tesla shares helped to push Musk's wealth into the stratosphere. On Dec. 17, Bloomberg reported Musk's wealth reached $486 billion — an 84% jump from $264 billion on Nov. 5, the day Trump was elected president. His wealth has fallen 22% since that record high.

With wealth, at least on paper, of $379 billion, Musk is still far and away the richest person in the world. Mark Zuckerberg is currently ranked second on the Bloomberg index with a net worth of $253 billion (up $46.2 billion for the year), and Jeff Bezos is third with a net worth of $252 billion (up $13.1 billion for the year).

Musk is also far wealthier than he was a year ago. On Feb. 13, 2024, his net worth totaled $202 billion, according to Bloomberg.

Musk owns about 13% of Tesla in addition to about 304 million stock options that were awarded to him in a 2018 pay package, according to Bloomberg. Although the package was rejected twice by a Delaware Chancery Court judge, the approximate $100 billion value of the shares are included in Bloomberg's calculation of Musk's net worth. In January, the megabillionaire appealed the latest court ruling.

Tesla isn't Musk's only source of wealth. He is also the CEO of the privately held aerospace and defense company, SpaceX, where he owns an approximate 42% stake, and he owns about 79% of X, the social-media platform, in addition to stakes in xAI, Neuralink, and the Boring Co., Bloomberg said.

Write to Abby Schultz at abby.schultz@barrons.com

This content was created by Barron's, which is operated by Dow Jones & Co. Barron's is published independently from Dow Jones Newswires and The Wall Street Journal.

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250212009962:0/)
