---
title: "Basic Materials Roundup: Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-14 01:20:00"
summary: "The latest Market Talks covering Basic Materials. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires at 4:20 ET, 12:20 ET and 16:50 ET.0430 ET - DSM-Firmenich could launch another share buyback program in 2026, analysts at Equita write. This follows the nutrition, health and bioscience company announcing a surprise 1 billion euro..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The latest Market Talks covering Basic Materials. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires at 4:20 ET, 12:20 ET and 16:50 ET.

0430 ET - DSM-Firmenich could launch another share buyback program in 2026, analysts at Equita write. This follows the nutrition, health and bioscience company announcing a surprise 1 billion euro buyback alongside its fourth-quarter results. The buyback launched on Thursday will be executed over the next 12 months and is valued at 3.7% of its market capitalization, they write. The buyback follows solid fourth-quarter results, which were slightly better than expected, the analysts write. Shares trade up 2.62% at 103.65 euros. (adam.whittaker@wsj.com)DSM-Firmenich's underlying Ebitda guidance for 2025 is for at least 2.4 billion euros. "DSM-Firmenich's Share Buyback Was a Welcome Surprise — Market Talk," at 0822 GMT, misstated the guidance figure.

0322 ET - DSM-Firmenich's 1 billion-euro buyback was a nice surprise, Barclays analysts write in a research note. In additiong, the nutrition, health and bioscience company's fourth-quarter adjusted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization beat analysts expectations by 1.8%, they add. The only niggle was the miss to organic sales growth expectations in its taste, texture and health division, the analysts write. Fears around the 2% miss may be reduced if the company explains on its analyst call that momentum within the division remains strong, they write. DSM's underlying Ebitda guidance for 2025 of at least 2.4 billion euros shows constructive underlying performance, the analysts add. Shares rise 4% to 105.10 euros. (adam.whittaker@wsj.com) Corrections & Amplifications

This market talk item was corrected at 0900 GMT to reflect DSM-Firmenich's underlying Ebitda guidance for 2025 is for at least 2.4 billion euros. The original version misstated the guidance figure as 2.45 billion euros.

2048 ET - IRPC could incur more impairments on its investment in Ube Chemicals (Asia) following a THB500 million impairment in 4Q, UOB Kay Hian's Arsit Pamaranont says in a research report. In a recent conference call, management disclosed the possibility of further impairment on its investment, the analyst notes. The Thailand-listed integrated petrochemical company also plans to shut down certain unprofitable units this year, which could heighten market worries over additional impairments. The brokerage trims the stock's target price to THB1.25 from THB1.50. However, the bad news is already priced in, the brokerage says as it maintains a buy rating. Shares last quoted at THB1.03. (ronnie.harui@wsj.com)

1817 ET - South32's 1H result should be neutral for shares as solid earnings--in line with consensus estimates--and a modest dividend beat are balanced by ongoing cost pressures, says Citi analyst Paul McTaggart. "Meeting earnings expectations a positive offset by raised 2H FY25 unit cost guidance," he says in a note. Citi has a neutral rating and A$3.90 target on the stock. South32 ended Wednesday at A$3.43/share. (rhiannon.hoyle@wsj.com; @RhiannonHoyle)

1724 ET - Canadian timber company West Fraser already has a few things — namely, high mortgage rates that are making housing less affordable — that are weighing on demand for its products such as lumber. Add the threat of tariffs as another layer of uncertainty. CEO Sean McLaren says in conjunction with 4Q earnings that the potential for the Trump administration to impose broad-based tariffs on Canadian exports "adds another element of demand uncertainty for the produce we ship to the U.S. from Canada." West Fraser is rolling with it, however, and says it can be proactive by focusing on improving the costs across its mills and invest to modernize operations "where it makes sense." (paul.ziobro@wsj.com)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250213012680:0/)
