---
title: "Region Returns to 1H Profit, Reaffirms Guidance"
date: "2025-02-11 05:24:00"
summary: "(21:19 GMT) *Region 1H Net Profit A$81.8 Million(21:20 GMT) *Region 1H Revenue A$191.9 Million, Up 0.9% on Year(21:20 GMT) *Region 1H Funds From Operations A$87.9 Million(21:24 GMT) Region Returns to 1H Profit, Reaffirms GuidanceBy David WinningSYDNEY--Region returned to a half-year profit as the value of its mall portfolio rose, overcoming..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

**(21:19 GMT)** \*Region 1H Net Profit A$81.8 Million  
**(21:20 GMT)** \*Region 1H Revenue A$191.9 Million, Up 0.9% on Year  
**(21:20 GMT)** \*Region 1H Funds From Operations A$87.9 Million  
**(21:24 GMT)** Region Returns to 1H Profit, Reaffirms Guidance

By David Winning

SYDNEY--Region returned to a half-year profit as the value of its mall portfolio rose, overcoming a difficult macroeconomic backdrop as elevated interest rates weigh on consumer confidence.

Region reported a net profit of 81.8 million Australian dollars (US$51.3 million) in the six months through December, reversing a A$35 million loss at the corresponding stage of a year ago. Revenue rose 0.9% to A$191.9 million.

Earnings were supported by a 0.9% increase in the value of properties owned for at least one year. That helped to bring the total value of Region's investment properties to A$4.32 billion at the end of December, from A$4.28 billion six months earlier.

Mall owners are navigating tricky retail conditions as elevated interest rates upend consumer behavior, keeping some shoppers at home and prompting others to trade down. Official data showed discounting by retailers ahead of the Christmas period helped to prop up demand, although this was offset by a soft December.

Still, economists are increasingly confident that the Reserve Bank of Australia will loosen monetary policy this month, joining other central banks such as the Federal Reserve and Bank of England that have already done so. That would provide a tailwind for real-estate investment trusts by reducing the cost of servicing their debt.

On Tuesday, Region said occupancy was stable at 98.1% at the end of December, and it had completed 256 leasing deals with 2.1% average specialty leasing spreads.

Region maintained a forecast for adjusted funds from operations of 13.7 cents per security in the 12 months through June. The company is also targeting funds from operations of 15.5 cents per security.

Commercial real estate is typically valued based on its capitalization rate, or the annual net income produced by a property divided by the purchase price. Like bond yields, rising cap rates indicate falling values, and vice versa.

Region recently said the weighted average cap rate of the portfolio increased by 1 basis point to 6.08% over the six months through December.

Write to David Winning at david.winning@wsj.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250210010366:0/)
