---
title: "TUI Shares Fall on Decline in Booking, Pricing Growth"
date: "2025-02-11 18:00:00"
summary: "By Pierre BertrandTUI shares fell in early European trading after the German travel operator posted a slowdown in booking and pricing growth in the first quarter of fiscal 2025.As earnings increased for the quarter ended Dec. 31, TUI said that winter and summer bookings were both up 2% on year..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Pierre Bertrand

TUI shares fell in early European trading after the German travel operator posted a slowdown in booking and pricing growth in the first quarter of fiscal 2025.

As earnings increased for the quarter ended Dec. 31, TUI said that winter and summer bookings were both up 2% on year with average prices 4% higher. It said its summer program was 32% sold with Spain, Greece and Turkey the most popular destinations.

But despite the on-year increases to both bookings and prices, growth slowed compared with what TUI had reported in December for the end of fiscal 2024. At that time, winter bookings were up 4% with 5% higher average selling prices, while summer bookings were 7% up with 3% higher prices.

Analysts at Barcalys said in a research note that a widened EBIT loss at TUI's markets and airline segment could cause some degree of nervousness among investors, while Jefferies analysts said in a research note that TUI's unchanged guidance implies that EBIT growth should slow in the remainder of the year.

TUI shares slid 8.6% to 7.78 euros in early European trading.

TUI made 50.9 million euros ($52.5 million) in underlying earnings before interest and taxes for the quarter compared with 6 million euros a year earlier.

Underlying EBIT at constant currency--the company's preferred metric, which strips out exceptional and other one-off items--jumped to 65.7 million euros from 6 million euros.

Analysts had expected first-quarter underlying EBIT at 16 million euros on 4.49 billion euros in revenue, according to Visible Alpha consensus.

The company said the result reflected the performance of its holiday packages, comprising hotels and resorts, cruises and its TUI Musement tours and activities business.

"In particular, the positive booking momentum in recent weeks shows that consumers continue to prioritize their vacation," TUI said.

A 2% rise in occupancy and an increase in average daily rates supported a 66% rise in underlying EBIT in hotels and resorts in the quarter. Average daily rates for cruises, meanwhile, also rose in the reporting period, propelling earnings, TUI said.

TUI Musement posted a 19% rise in revenue in the quarter, the steepest increase across the group. The unit sold 2.3 million packages, a 12% increase. TUI expects bookings at the unit to grow at a high single-digit in the second quarter and at a low double-digit rate for the second half of the year.

TUI carried 3.7 million customers in the quarter, 6% more than in the prior year, driving a revenue increase of 13% to 4.87 billion euros. Package holiday customer numbers rose 18% to 700,000.

TUI backed its fiscal 2025 guidance at constant currency of 5% to 10% revenue growth and underlying EBIT growth of 7% to 10%.

The company said it is well-positioned to deliver on its midterm targets including growing underlying EBIT by a compound annual growth rate of around 7% to 10%.

Write to Pierre Bertrand at pierre.bertrand@wsj.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250211002193:0/)
