---
title: "Global Energy Roundup: Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-10 16:45:00"
summary: "The latest Market Talks covering Energy markets. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.0844 GMT - Elliott Management could force BP to reorganize its business and make changes to its board after it was reported the hedge fund has built a stake in the British energy giant, Jefferies..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The latest Market Talks covering Energy markets. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.

0844 GMT - Elliott Management could force BP to reorganize its business and make changes to its board after it was reported the hedge fund has built a stake in the British energy giant, Jefferies analysts Giacomo Romeo and Kai Ye Loh write. Elliott could look to remove BP Chairman Helge Lund at the next AGM in late April or early May, the analysts write. Increasing shareholder returns by maximizing free-cash-flow generation via reduced capex and increased divestments would be a key goal, they add. It may also seek to refocus BP's strategy on traditional oil and gas activities and reduce exposure to low-carbon assets, they add. Shares trade up 7.4% at 465 pence. This is BP's best one-day rise since summer 2023. (adam.whittaker@wsj.com)

0648 GMT - Japan's Nikkei Stock Average closed flat at 38801.17, as gains in chemical and select electronics stocks helped offset losses in trading houses. Murata Manufacturing rose 5.0%, while Mitsui & Co. dropped 1.8%. Mitsubishi Chemical Group gained 2.0% after announcing its plan to sell its drug unit for $3.37 billion. The broader market index, Topix, fell 0.2% to 2733.01. Investors were focused on President Trump's tariff plans as well as domestic earnings. The 10-year Japanese government bond yield rose 1.5 basis points to 1.315%. USD/JPY is at 151.81, compared with 151.41 late Friday in New York. (kosaku.narioka@wsj.com; @kosakunarioka)

0618 GMT - BP's underperforming shares should be boosted by the introduction of a serious activist investor, RBC Capital Markets analysts Biraj Borkhataria and Adnan Dhanani write. Over the weekend, there were unconfirmed reports that Elliott Management has built a significant stake in the British energy company. Any activist investor is likely to call for a change in chairperson and might put pressure on BP to spin off some divisions, the analysts write. Its U.S. shale division, which is worth around $20 billion, its $10 billion lubricants division, and its marketing and retail business, valued at up to $40 billion, are potential target areas, the analyst write. BP's shares closed Friday at 433.25 pence and are down 9.45% over the past 12 months. (adam.whittaker@wsj.com)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250210001962:0/)
