---
title: "Eneos Plans to Spin off Metals Subsidiary, Raise $3 Billion in IPO — Update"
date: "2025-02-14 14:23:00"
summary: "By Kosaku NariokaEneos Holdings plans to spin off its metals subsidiary and raise as much as $3 billion through a listing that would be one of Japan's biggest such offerings in recent years.The Japanese energy company said Friday that the Tokyo Stock Exchange approved the listing of unit JX Advanced..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Kosaku Narioka

Eneos Holdings plans to spin off its metals subsidiary and raise as much as $3 billion through a listing that would be one of Japan's biggest such offerings in recent years.

The Japanese energy company said Friday that the Tokyo Stock Exchange approved the listing of unit JX Advanced Metals, scheduled for March 19.

Eneos said it would sell a majority of shares in the wholly owned subsidiary in the initial public offering, and would use the proceeds raised partly on investments necessary to increase the supply of next-generation energy such as synthetic fuels and hydrogen.

The company said JX Advanced Metals, which makes materials used in the semiconductor and information-technology industries, would be able to accelerate capital investments as well as research and development as a listed company.

Eneos said that it would sell up to 534.9 million shares, or 57.6% of the total outstanding, and that the offering price would be determined March 10. No new shares will be issued.

For now, JX Advanced Metals expects to offer shares at 862 yen apiece. The offering may raise up to Y461 billion, equivalent to $3.02 billion.

In October, the IPO by subway operator Tokyo Metro raised about $2.31 billion, making it the largest since SoftBank Corp.'s $21 billion IPO in 2018, according to data from Dealogic.

Write to Kosaku Narioka at kosaku.narioka@wsj.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250214000868:0/)
