---
title: "Global Equities Roundup: Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-11 13:14:00"
summary: "The latest Market Talks covering Equities. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.0514 GMT - Top Glove's earnings are on the cusp of a progressive recovery this year, UOB Kay Hian analyst Jack Goh says in a note. The glove maker is likely to benefit from U.S. tariff..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The latest Market Talks covering Equities. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.

0514 GMT - Top Glove's earnings are on the cusp of a progressive recovery this year, UOB Kay Hian analyst Jack Goh says in a note. The glove maker is likely to benefit from U.S. tariff hikes, including the additional 10% levy on Chinese goods, he writes. That could entice U.S. distributors to stop importing medical gloves from Chinese producers and instead buy from Malaysian manufacturers such as Top Glove, he says. The current risk-reward tradeoff appears fair but still provides palatable upside based on 2026 valuations, he adds. UOB KH maintains the stock's hold rating and target price of MYR1.31. Shares last closed at MYR1.22. (amanda.lee@wsj.com)

0513 GMT - BYD's latest AI-powered driving technology for Chinese car buyers mark a new breakthrough for the industry, according to Daiwa analysts Evelyn Zhang and Kelvin Lau in a research note. Peers are likely to follow suit, they write, recommending investors to focus on smart car technology supply-chain players after BYD's latest press conference. BYD is setting an example of cost reduction through engineering and technological innovation, the analysts note, adding that the industry is likely to follow BYD in accelerating innovation in engineering to cut costs. The analysts name Horizon Robotics, Huizhou Desay SV Automotive and Bethel Automotive Safety Systems as their preferred names. (tracy.qu@wsj.com)

0503 GMT - DeepSeek has triggered a positive feedback loop in the Hang Seng Index, overriding lackluster fundamentals, says Kelvin Wong, senior market analyst at Oanda. The Chinese AI startup's emergence has resulted in positive momentum overall for Hong Kong's benchmark index in the medium term, even though mixed consumer spending and weak factory activity in China suggest deflationary pressures are likely to persist, Wong adds. The Hang Seng Index, whose stocks serve as a proxy for international investors to get exposure to China equities, has outperformed major U.S. stock indexes so far this year, Wong notes. Investors are starting to reprice the earnings growth expectations of U.S. mega-cap technology stocks that are "trading at lofty valuations" over Chinese AI equities, Wong adds. (kimberley.kao@wsj.com)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250211000028:0/)
