---
title: "Lyft Sees Growth Slowdown in Gross Bookings, Shares Fall — 2nd Update"
date: "2025-02-12 07:34:00"
summary: "By Sabela OjeaRide-sharing company Lyft braced investors for a deceleration in bookings growth ahead amid a pricing war with Uber Technologies, sending shares lower in after-hours trading.The San Francisco company's stock was down 9.7%, to $13, after Tuesday's market close. The shares had jumped 19% over the past 12 months.Lyft..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Sabela Ojea

Ride-sharing company Lyft braced investors for a deceleration in bookings growth ahead amid a pricing war with Uber Technologies, sending shares lower in after-hours trading.

The San Francisco company's stock was down 9.7%, to $13, after Tuesday's market close. The shares had jumped 19% over the past 12 months.

Lyft on Tuesday said it expects first-quarter gross bookings to rise 10% to 14%--to between $4.05 billion and $4.20 billion--amid views for rides growth in the mid-teens percentage rate. Wall Street expected more growth, with its estimate for gross bookings coming in at $4.24 billion for the first quarter.

Finance Chief Erin Brewer said the company's outlook was affected by a decline in prices since the fourth quarter, coupled with Lyft users taking fewer and shorter rides after the holidays.

"If the price environment stays sustainably lower, that could be a low-single digit percentage point impact to our gross bookings," Brewer said about the company's projections for 2025 during an earnings call.

The end of a long exclusive partnership with Delta Air Lines, which recently tapped Uber in a new deal, will also hit Lyft's rides and gross bookings by around 1% to 2%, starting in the second quarter, Brewer added.

Regarding its approach to driverless taxis, Chief Executive David Risher said the company would start with the launch of around 1,000 Mobileye-powered robotaxis in Dallas in 2026, with financing from Japanese trading and investment firm Marubeni.

Last week, Uber shares also declined after the company reported lower-than-expected income for the fourth quarter and the market questioned the company's robotaxi plans.

Lyft's worse-than-expected guidance came after the company logged a jump in quarterly revenue as more people used the ride-sharing app.

In the fourth quarter, the company logged gross bookings growth of 15%, to $4.3 billion, for the quarter and a 10% increase in active riders, to 24.7 million. Analysts surveyed by FactSet expected $4.32 billion in gross bookings and 24.6 million active users.

Overall for the fourth quarter, Lyft posted a quarterly profit of $61.7 million compared with a loss of $26.3 million a year ago. Wall Street analysts had expected a loss of $3.4 million.

Revenue rose to $1.55 billion from $1.22 billion a year earlier, below the $1.56 billion forecast by Wall Street.

Lyft also announced a $500 million buyback, approved by its board of directors. The company didn't provide a timeline for the stock repurchases.

Write to Sabela Ojea at sabela.ojea@wsj.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250211012849:0/)
