---
title: "Corn Futures Slide on Caution Among Traders - Daily Grain Highlights"
date: "2025-02-08 04:52:00"
summary: "By Kirk MaltaisCorn for March delivery fell 1.6%, to $4.88 a bushel, on the Chicago Board of Trade on Friday, with traders taking a cautious stance ahead of the weekend, this after President Trump spoke of \"reciprocal tariffs\" coming next week.Soybeans for March delivery fell 1.1%, to $10.48 3/4 a..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Kirk Maltais

* Corn for March delivery fell 1.6%, to $4.88 a bushel, on the Chicago Board of Trade on Friday, with traders taking a cautious stance ahead of the weekend, this after President Trump spoke of "reciprocal tariffs" coming next week.
* Soybeans for March delivery fell 1.1%, to $10.48 3/4 a bushel.
* Wheat for March delivery fell 0.9%, to $5.82 3/4 a bushel.

HIGHLIGHTS

Weekend Warriors: After President Trump told reporters at the White House that new "reciprocal" tariffs were planned to be announced next week, CBOT grains extended losses posted earlier in the trading session. Trump didn't say what countries would be targeted with these tariffs--but in grains, traders sold to pare their risk. "The U.S. news cycle has dramatically changed with President Trump," said AgResource in a note. "There is no natural end to the workweek, and President Trump is willing to make announcements at any time."

Getting Better: The conditions for corn growing in Argentina have improved thanks to better soil conditions, said Charlie Sernatinger of Marex in a note. Corn led CBOT grains lower throughout Friday, and government agencies in the country say that better rain has had a positive effect on the health of crops. "The Buenos Aires Exchange said late planted corn in southern Cordoba and western Buenos Aires province have seen a 21% improvement in adequate to optimal soil moisture, and said that early harvesting has begun in Entre Rios province," said Sernatinger. South American crops are a chief competitor to U.S. grain exports.

INSIGHT

Flagging Momentum: Analysts Friday said that a positive trend for grain futures seen this week ran out of gas. "The bulls may need another push to keep momentum moving forward, but may have trouble finding one this month," said Matt Zeller of StoneX in a note. Tuesday's WASDE report is expected to contain little in the way of new information on U.S. crops, although updates to the USDA's outlook for Brazil and Argentina are expected.

Support System: The USDA said this week that it expects farmers to finish 2025 with a net income of $180.1 billion--up $41 billion over last year's figure--even though cash receipts from crop sales aren't expected to increase, but actually fall from 2024. Instead, the USDA says that direct government payments to farmers are expected to more than triple in 2025, to $42.4 billion. That is due in large part to federal aid passed by Congress in December.

AHEAD

* The USDA will release its weekly Grain Export Inspections report at 11 a.m. ET Monday.
* The USDA will release its monthly World Agricultural Supply and Demand Estimates report at noon ET Tuesday.
* The EIA will release its weekly ethanol production and stocks report at 10:30 a.m. ET Wednesday.

Write to Kirk Maltais at kirk.maltais@wsj.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250207009903:0-corn-futures-slide-on-caution-among-traders-daily-grain-highlights/)
