---
title: "Global Commodities Roundup: Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-10 13:15:00"
summary: "The latest Market Talks covering Commodities. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.0250 GMT - Iron ore prices are lower in early Asian trading. U.S. President Trump announced plans to impose 25% tariffs on imports of steel and aluminum, a move which could hurt the demand of the..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The latest Market Talks covering Commodities. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.

0250 GMT - Iron ore prices are lower in early Asian trading. U.S. President Trump announced plans to impose 25% tariffs on imports of steel and aluminum, a move which could hurt the demand of the black metal. However, iron ore prices may still find some near-term support, thanks to seasonal strong demand and supply, according to Nanhua Futures analysts in a commentary. Investors are likely to focus on changes on demand, as mainland China gradually returns to work after a week-long Lunar New Year holiday, they add. The most-traded iron ore contract on the Dalian Commodity Exchange is down 0.3% at CNY809.0/ton. (tracy.qu@wsj.com)

0237 GMT - Palm oil prices rise in early Asian trading. Concerns about limited supply are bolstering the market, AmInvestment Bank says in a note. It anticipate prices will rise further, testing the MYR4,600/ton-MYR4,650/ton resistance level before profit-taking sets in after a three-day rally. Any price pullback could present an opportunity to enter long positions, it adds. The Malaysian Palm Oil Board's Jan. supply and demand data is expected this afternoon. AmInvestment Bank pegs CPO support at 4,395 ringgit/ton and resistance at 4,549 ringgit/ton. The Bursa Malaysia Derivatives contract for April delivery is 18 ringgit higher at 4,522 ringgit/ton. (yingxian.wong@wsj.com)

0103 GMT - Australia's BlueScope Steel is tipped to be a winner from President Trump's planned 25% tariffs on U.S. imports of steel and aluminum. The stock rises 2.8% to A$22.11/share, as the broader Australian market trades in the red. The U.S. is BlueScope's top region for growth. The steelmaker, which runs the North Star mini-mill in Ohio, is working to boost volumes there by another 10% following the completion of an expansion that increased output by nearly 50%. Trump says he plans to announce the 25% tariffs Monday. U.S. tariffs could help offset tough steel-market conditions for BlueScope, with spreads in Asia especially soft. BlueScope's stock hit A$22.365 earlier in Sydney, its highest since Dec. 2. (rhiannon.hoyle@wsj.com; @RhiannonHoyle)

0045 GMT - The impact from potential U.S. tariffs on steel and aluminum on emerging economies in Asia is likely to be relatively limited, Barclays economists say. They estimate Taiwan, South Korea and India's exposure at around 5% of their shipments to the U.S., at most. Relative to their economic sizes of, that's at most 0.6% of Taiwan's GDP, 0.5% of Vietnam's and 0.3% or less for many others, Brian Tan and others say. They note that Trump imposed steel and aluminum tariffs in 2018, as did Biden in July 2024. "To the extent that these earlier tariffs had not been reversed, the incremental increase could end up being relatively limited, further mitigating the economic pain for Emerging Asia." (fabiana.negrinochoa@wsj.com)

2348 GMT - Gold edges higher in the early Asian session. U.S. President Trump said that he plans to impose 25% tariffs Monday on imports of steel and aluminum, which could spur safe-haven demand by investors fearful of Trump's trade policies. Trump also said that he plans to make an announcement about reciprocal tariffs on Tuesday or Wednesday. Worries over inflation related to a more restrictive global trade environment, geopolitical risks and sanctions on Iran's oil have prompted investors to build robust gold long positions, TD Securities' commodity strategists say in a research report. Spot gold is 0.3% higher at $2,867.96/oz. (ronnie.harui@wsj.com)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250210000099:0/)
