---
title: "VP Bank Raises Industrial Metals Exposure as Inflation Hedge — Interview"
date: "2025-02-14 12:23:00"
summary: "By Jiahui HuangThe start of President Trump's second term has been a whirlwind for markets, presenting both risks and opportunities, and industrial metals and gold could be safe havens as hedges against potentially higher inflation, according to VP Bank.\"Don't bet only on U.S. equities,\" Felix Brill, chief investment officer at..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Jiahui Huang

The start of President Trump's second term has been a whirlwind for markets, presenting both risks and opportunities, and industrial metals and gold could be safe havens as hedges against potentially higher inflation, according to VP Bank.

"Don't bet only on U.S. equities," Felix Brill, chief investment officer at Liechtenstein-based VP Bank told The Wall Street Journal on Tuesday. "It all comes down to our investment philosophy: we don't like to have too many concentrated bets."

Even though U.S. equities were among the best performing asset classes last year and investors have been optimistic about U.S. stocks, they should keep in mind that Trump's tariffs could drive up inflation and undermine the market's performance.

Brill suggested current conditions echoed the pattern of inflation seen between 1968 to 1984, when inflation surged amid the 1970s oil shock. "Inflation is the one topic we have to think about this year," Brill said.

Trump's immigration policy could lead to higher wages and consumer prices, he noted, adding that tariffs are "basically nothing but a tax on consumers," which companies will pass on to consumers to some extent.

U.S. consumer-price data from the Labor Department this week showed inflation for January coming in at a larger-than-expected 3%, compared with the same period a year earlier.

As a hedge against inflation, VP Bank included industrial metals to its portfolio in January, with a 2% allocation, on top of its gold holdings, which makes up 3% of the portfolio, Brill said.

"We see a strong case that demand for industrial metals structurally and fundamentally will be improving, because you need a lot of these metals, for instance, for the energy transition," he said.

The energy sector's shift from fossil fuels as well as the rise of artificial intelligence and cloud computing could boost metal prices, he added, as supply is relatively restricted while demand remains high.

Metal prices in the U.S. have also received a recent boost after Trump said he would impose 25% tariffs on imports of aluminum and steel.

Still, the U.S. remains the bank's preferred country to invest in, with a particular interest in U.S. midcap stocks.

"On the day of the election, we bought the U.S. midcap," Brill said, adding that these companies would benefit the most from Trump's policies to boost the local economy.

The bank maintained its portfolio weighting for emerging markets. "We haven't really changed the portfolio yet, but we have already had a decent amount of emerging market exposure in our portfolios, both on the bond side, but especially on the equity side," he said, adding that both are core building blocks for the bank's portfolio.

He called Chinese AI startup DeepSeek "a game changer" to the belief that the U.S. would dominate global technology with its facilities and mammoth tech companies. Still, "at the moment, we have not increased the exposure, especially to Chinese tech."

VP Bank thinks China remains a value play for investment and sees some green shoots in the property sector and consumption. Still, the bank remains in a wait-and-see mode ahead of China's National People's Congress meeting in March, when major economic policies from Beijing could be announced.

As of the first half of 2024, VP Bank's client assets under management was around 50.4 billion Swiss francs, or equivalent to $55.81 billion.

Write to Jiahui Huang at jiahui.huang@wsj.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250213018673:0/)
