---
title: "Global Forex and Fixed Income Roundup: Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-13 07:24:00"
summary: "The latest Market Talks covering FX and Fixed Income. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.1824 ET - It's highly likely that the Reserve Bank of New Zealand will cut the official cash rate by 50 basis points to 3.75% at its policy meeting next week but project..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The latest Market Talks covering FX and Fixed Income. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.

1824 ET - It's highly likely that the Reserve Bank of New Zealand will cut the official cash rate by 50 basis points to 3.75% at its policy meeting next week but project a slower pace of easing after February, says Westpac economist Kelly Eckhold. Still, there's also an outside chance the RBNZ cuts the OCR by more to try and bring the OCR to neutral more quickly, he says. There's potential for the RBNZ to outline a dovish scenario that signals its intention to move the OCR to neutral more quickly by signalling a 3% OCR by mid-2025. This would signal a high chance of a further 50 basis point cut at the April review, Eckhold says. (james.glynn@wsj.com; @JamesGlynnWSJ)

1819 ET - Consumer inflation came in hotter than expected, but Goldman Sachs economists think the data still point to a decline in the 12-month readings of the Fed's preferred inflation gauge, the personal consumption expenditures price index. Based on the CPI, Goldman thinks that headline PCE inflation was up 0.38% in January, with core PCE rising 0.45% month over month. That is still an elevated rate but would bring the 12-month increase in headline PCE down to 2.5%, from 2.6% in December, and the 12-month core PCE inflation rate down to 2.6%, from 2.8% in December, Goldman says. Analysts will be able to estimate PCE inflation with more certainty after January PPI figures land Thursday morning. PCE inflation data are due Feb. 28. (matt.grossman@wsj.com, @mattgrossman)

1654 ET - Cryptocurrency drove nearly half of Robinhood's transaction-based revenue in 4Q, the online brokerage says. Crypto volumes expanded four-fold and higher crypto valuations boosted total assets under custody. The digital currency's power in Robinhood's financials is something to watch as the regulatory environment eases under the Trump administration and the company continues to make investments in the sector. It added seven new crypto assets in the U.S. last year and agreed to buy the crypto exchange Bitstamp, which is set to be finalized in the first half of 2025. Shares up 13% to $62.99 in after hours trading. (katherine.hamilton@wsj.com)

1534 ET - Treasury yields hold on to their gains as markets brace for a long period of unchanged interest rates. January CPI was higher than expected, although seasonal factors might have been at play. Markets are now pricing 30% odds that there will be no rate cuts this year, up from 20% yesterday, according to CME. Odds of only one cut are 40%. On Thursday, weekly jobless claims are expected to decline to 215,000 from 219,000, according to a Wall Street Journal survey. PPI inflation is forecast to accelerate. The 10-year yield gains a tenth of a percentage point, to 4.636%, its largest one-day rise since December. The two-year gains 0.075 p.p., to 4.365%. (paulo.trevisani@wsj.com; @ptrevisani)

1526 ET - Chip-card technology was supposed to cut down on fraud when it was rolled out in the mid-2010s. But roughly a decade of evidence shows that the tech has only enabled limited progress on fighting fraud, economist Fumiko Hayashi of the Kansas City Fed finds. Fraud rates on dual-message payment networks (such as Visa, Mastercard and Discover) have in general failed to decline, or have even increased, despite broad adoption of chip debit cards. (The research excludes prepaid debit cards.) Fraud trends are a bit better for single-message payment networks, which require the user to enter a PIN at the point of sale in addition to inserting the chip. Understanding why this has happened will require more research, Hayashi writes. (matt.grossman@wsj.com, @mattgrossman)

1500 ET - Deutsche Bank's U.S. economists maintain their call that the Fed will not choose to cut rates in 2025 after the hot January CPI data. In their base case, the DB team now thinks that the March Fed dot plot will show less inclination to cut rates this year, and that the June dot plot will erase the penciled-in cuts from the current 4.25% to 4.5% target. Rate hikes aren't out of the question but "the bar is likely to be high," the DB team writes. Hikes would likely require that, first, "downside risks to the labor market need to be extinguished," and, second, "core PCE inflation would need to accelerate towards or above 3% in year-over-year terms." Core PCE was up by 2.8% in the 12 months through December. (matt.grossman@wsj.com, @mattgrossman)

1417 ET - The uptick on core inflation last month "is less alarming than it first appears," and a Fed cut this summer remains possible, Pantheon's Sam Tombs writes. He says seasonal factors make it more complicated to extrapolate one month's data. He says the February data will give a better sense of how the underlying trend is evolving. Tombs expects the PCE gauge, to be released later this month, to edge down to 2.7% in January, from 2.8% in December. "If as we expect, the trend continues to slow over the coming months, we still think the FOMC will ease policy again in June." (paulo.trevisani@wsj.com)

1325 ET - High mortgage rates, rising to 7.04% in January compared with mid-6% last year, are impacting buyers more than sellers, Zillow says. Home values, up 44% since pre-pandemic and 2.6% year-over- year, make affordability tough, with pending sales down 3.6%. Buyers face challenges, but many listings see price cuts. Sellers, less affected by rates, are listing more, with new listings up 12% year over year, driven by equity gains and life events like job changes or family growth. Western markets like Portland, Seattle, Denver, and San Francisco are seeing the fastest listing growth. Despite buyer struggles, 25% of homes sold in December exceeded asking price, up from 19% pre-pandemic, showing some sellers still benefit in this market. (chris.wack@wsj.com)

1251 ET - Home listings are selling for less than asking price and taking longer to sell, according to Redfin. In January, the typical U.S. home was selling for 1.8% below asking, the largest discount in nearly two years, and taking 56 days to go under contract, the longest in almost five years. About 56% of listings remain on the market for at least 60 days, similar to last year but down from 61% last month, the highest in five years. High home prices--up 4% year over year--and elevated mortgage rates have pushed buyer payments near record highs, slowing the market. Political and economic uncertainty are also deterring buyers. But this slow market gives buyers more room to negotiate on price and terms, offering some relief amid high costs and low inventory. (chris.wack@wsj.com)

1158 ET - Canada Prime Minister Justin Trudeau says he had a short encounter with Vice President JD Vance about the negative fallout from a 25% tariff on steel and aluminum from Ohio. Trudeau tells reporters he told Vance — for an AI conference in Paris that the two lawmakers attended — that about C$2.2 billion of Canadian-made steel and aluminum are used by manufacturers in Vance's home state. "He nodded and noted it," Trudeau says, noting it was a short exchange. Earlier in the day, Quebec Premier Francois Legault mused that perhaps Canada should slap an export tax on U.S.-bound aluminum should the Trump administration imposes a hefty tariff on the metal. Canadian officials play down talk of export taxes, saying they want to press U.S. officials for a carve out. (paul.vieira@wsj.com, @paulvieira)

1153 ET - Gold futures slip after U.S. economic data pointed to hotter-than-expected inflation. Futures are down 0.4% at $2,920 a troy ounce, having reached a record $2,968.50 in the prior session. Consumer prices in January rose 3% from a year earlier, more than the 2.9% that economists were expecting and lowering the chances of a Federal Reserve interest rate cut any time soon. Higher rates typically damp investor enthusiasm for non-interest bearing bullion. Potential U.S. tariffs add upside risk to inflation in upcoming quarters, but there are some encouraging signs that housing costs will slow meaningfully later in 2025 and keep the door open to cuts in the second half of the year, ING analysts say in a note. (joseph.hoppe@wsj.com)

1138 ET - Oil prices fall in evening trade after U.S. crude oil inventories rose for a third straight week and CPI figures showed inflation heated up last month. Brent crude is down 1.3% to $75.98 a barrel, while WTI falls 1.5% to $72.24 a barrel. Oil stocks rose by 4.1 million barrels last week, well above expectations of a 2.4-million-barrel increase, signaling weaker demand in the world's top crude consumer. Also, the latest U.S. data showed inflation picked up speed in January, extending a recent pattern of price increases that upholds the Fed's more cautious stance on interest-rate cuts. Higher rates typically boost the U.S. dollar and make commodities like oil more expensive for holders of other currencies. Meanwhile, concerns over escalating trade tensions continue to cast a shadow on global growth and the oil-demand outlook, putting pressure on prices. (giulia.petroni@wsj.com)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250212016376:0/)
