---
title: "Barclays Guides For Growth After Quarterly Beat"
date: "2025-02-13 15:28:00"
summary: "(07:00 GMT) *Analysts Saw Barclays 4Q EPS 7.0p(07:00 GMT) *Analysts Saw Barclays 4Q Net Pft GBP989M(07:00 GMT) *Analysts Saw Barclays 4Q Pretax Pft GBP1.62B(07:00 GMT) *Analysts Saw Barclays 4Q Rev GBP6.705B(07:01 GMT) *Barclays 4Q RoTE 7.5%(07:01 GMT) *Analysts Saw Barclays 4Q RoTE 7.9%(07:01 GMT) *Barclays End-4Q CET1 Ratio 13.6%(07:01 GMT)..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

**(07:00 GMT)** \*Analysts Saw Barclays 4Q EPS 7.0p  
**(07:00 GMT)** \*Analysts Saw Barclays 4Q Net Pft GBP989M  
**(07:00 GMT)** \*Analysts Saw Barclays 4Q Pretax Pft GBP1.62B  
**(07:00 GMT)** \*Analysts Saw Barclays 4Q Rev GBP6.705B  
**(07:01 GMT)** \*Barclays 4Q RoTE 7.5%  
**(07:01 GMT)** \*Analysts Saw Barclays 4Q RoTE 7.9%  
**(07:01 GMT)** \*Barclays End-4Q CET1 Ratio 13.6%  
**(07:01 GMT)** \*Analysts Saw Barclays End-4Q CET1 Ratio 13.6%  
**(07:02 GMT)** \*Barclays Backs 2026 View  
**(07:03 GMT)** \*Barclays Sees 2025 RoTE Around 11%  
**(07:04 GMT)** \*Barclays Sees Progressive Increase in Total Capital Returns in 2025 Vs 2024  
**(07:04 GMT)** \*Barclays Sees 2025 Net Interest Income Excl. IB, Head Office GBP12.2B  
**(07:05 GMT)** \*Barclays Sees 2025 Barclays UK Net Interest Income GBP7.4B  
**(07:05 GMT)** \*Barclays Sees 2025 Cost Income Ratio 61%  
**(07:05 GMT)** \*Barclays Sees 2025 Total Gross Efficiency Savings GBP0.5B  
**(07:06 GMT)** \*Barclays 4Q Credit Impairment Charges GBP711M  
**(07:06 GMT)** \*Analysts Saw Barclays 4Q Credit Impairment Charges GBP668M  
**(07:06 GMT)** \*Barclays Launches Share Buyback GBP1M  
**(07:06 GMT)** \*Analysts Saw Barclays GBP1B Share Buyback  
**(07:07 GMT)** \*Barclays Declares Dividend of 5.5p  
**(07:07 GMT)** \*Analysts Saw Barclays Final Dividend 5.7p  
**(07:07 GMT)** \*Barclays 2024 Total Dividend 8.4p  
**(07:07 GMT)** \*Analysts Saw Barclays 2024 Total Dividend 8.6p  
**(07:28 GMT)** Barclays Guides For Growth After Quarterly Beat

By Elena Vardon

Barclays said it expects an increase in profitability this year as it reported better-than-expected results for its fourth quarter.

The British bank on Thursday posted a pretax profit of 1.66 billion pounds ($2.07 billion) for the three months ended Dec. 31, up from 110 million pounds a year prior when it booked hefty restructuring charges, and ahead of a 1.62 billion pound estimate taken from a company-compiled consensus.

The group's revenue came in at 6.96 billion pounds, beating expectations of 6.705 billion pounds and roughly split between fees and commissions and net interest income, the difference between what banks earn on loans and what they pay clients for deposits. Investment banking, an area where Barclays aims to grow and has significant presence in the U.S., largely contributed to the result with 2.61 billion pounds.

The bank guided for net interest income excluding the investment bank and head office of 12.2 billion pounds for 2025, growing on the 11.2 billion pounds it reported for 2024 as structural hedges it has placed to mitigate the impact of interest-rate cuts by the Bank of England continued to provide a tailwind.

Return on tangible equity--a key measure of profitability--is expected to improve to around 11% this year from the 10.5% return it posted for 2024.

Barclays also launched an up to 1 billion pound share buyback and declared a total dividend of 8.4 pence.

Write to Elena Vardon at elena.vardon@wsj.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250213002646:0/)
