---
title: "Global Equities Roundup: Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-13 07:55:00"
summary: "The latest Market Talks covering Equities. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.1855 ET - The Aussie dollar-U.S. dollar pair is near 0.6280, after trading in a wide 70 point range in the U.S. trading session. The 0.6290 level is proving to be firm Fibonacci-related technical resistance for..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The latest Market Talks covering Equities. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.

1855 ET - The Aussie dollar-U.S. dollar pair is near 0.6280, after trading in a wide 70 point range in the U.S. trading session. The 0.6290 level is proving to be firm Fibonacci-related technical resistance for AUD/USD, says Krisitina Clifton, currency strategist at CBA. AUD/USD will likely follow the USD trend until the Reserve Bank of Australia's interest rate announcement on Tuesday, she adds. A 25 basis point cash rate cut, if delivered, will be the first since the Covid pandemic. Clifton says that if the RBA does not cut next week it would be a shock to the currency market and AUD/USD could lift by around 1 U.S. cent. (james.glynn@wsj.com ; @JamesGlynnWSJ)

1853 ET - Origin Energy's shares gain 1.6% after its 1H result beat consensus expectations, shrugging off lower earnings from minority-owned business Octopus. Citi says Origin's A$1.02 billion net profit was 4% ahead of market hopes, while an interim dividend of A$0.30/share was also stronger. "We had a negative outlook into today's result after the cash tax and APLNG guidance came in soft at the quarter," says analyst James Byrne, referring to the Australia Pacific LNG facility. Citi removes its negative outlook, while retaining a buy call on the stock. It says Origin's pared earnings guidance for Octopus reflects heavier investment in technology rather than poor risk management, which had been a concern for some investors. (david.winning@wsj.com; @dwinningWSJ)

1843 ET - Japanese stocks may rise as a weaker yen raises hopes for earnings growth. Nikkei futures are up 0.6% at 39210 on the SGX. USD/JPY is at 154.41, up from 153.64 as of Wednesday's Tokyo stock market close. Investors are focusing on earnings as well as U.S. trade policies. Daiwa House Industry and Sumitomo Forestry are scheduled to announce their results later in the day. The Nikkei Stock Average rose 0.4% to 38963.70 on Wednesday. (kosaku.narioka@wsj.com)

1843 ET - Orora's transition to a specialist drinks packaging company allows Citi to get a cleaner look at its cans business, which previously was folded into a business unit with glass manufacturing. Citi's initial conclusion: it looks world class. "On first take Ebitda margins at 15-16% appear comparable to global comparisons of 15-17%," says analyst Samuel Seow, who is also impressed by the four-year growth outlook for cans sales. Still, investors may not reward Orora much in the near term. Citi notes that valuations of Orora's global peers have pulled back materially in the past six months, "potentially reducing some re-rating opportunity." Citi has a neutral call on Orora, which is down 3% today. (david.winning@wsj.com; @dwinningWSJ)

1838 ET - Temple & Webster's bull at Citi is largely unconcerned by the Australian furniture retailer's softer revenue growth at the start of the June half. Analyst Siraj Ahmed tells investors in a note that second-half sales are already accelerating from that softer start, when relative growth was hit by the comparative strength of the prior-year period. On-year revenue growth is at 19% in February and getting to the expected 23% growth over the whole of the fiscal half is unlikely to happen linearly, he adds. Citi has a last-published buy rating and A$13.50 target price on the stock, which is up 11% at A$15.79. (stuart.condie@wsj.com)

1836 ET - AppLovin's Marketing Chief Katie Jansen has tendered her resignation, effective March 14, the company says as it discloses the sale of its gaming business to focus on its advertising segment. Jansen had served as CMO of the mobile advertising technology company, whose shares have skyrocketed more than sevenfold over the past year. Shares jump 28% to $486.51 after hours. (sabela.ojea@wsj.com; @sabelaojeaguix)

1832 ET - The expansion of AGL Energy's battery portfolio has grabbed the attention of UBS, which thinks it bodes well for rival Origin Energy. Analyst Tom Allen expects batteries to drive consensus upgrades to EPS forecasts from FY 2026. This provides "a strong read-through for Origin Energy, which we believe has the strongest battery portfolio in development across the market," UBS says. Still, the battery rollout means it must invest more. AGL expects to take a final investment decision on 1.4 gigawatts of new battery capacity over the next 18 months. "Despite forecasting materially higher EPS than consensus from FY 2027 we remain neutral rated as we see the potential for higher shareholder returns moderated by the scale of AGL's long-term reinvestment challenge," UBS says. (david.winning@wsj.com; @dwinningWSJ)

1831 ET - Temple & Webster's first-half results contradict the bear thesis that growth and margin are mutually exclusive, RBC analyst Wei-Weng Chen says. The Australian furniture retailer's 1H revenue was 2.4% stronger than anticipated by Chen, who was already bullish on the stock. At the same time, a 4.2% Ebitda margin was well above the company's full-year guidance for 1%-3%. Revenue growth at the start of the June half is down relative to the December half, but Chen points out in a note to clients that it is accelerating and will benefit from a softer prior period. RBC has an outperform rating and A$14.28 target price on the stock, which is up 7.9% at A$15.41. (stuart.condie@wsj.com)

1827 ET - While GrainCorp's initial guidance for FY 2025 earnings disappoints RBC Capital Markets, it could just be acting conservatively. GrainCorp has pointed to FY 2025 Ebitda of A$270 million-A$320 million, missing consensus expectations by some 10%. Still, analyst Owen Birrell says there is a higher degree of market uncertainty than in previous years. Specifically, GrainCorp called out "recent uncertainty in global trade policies" among issues that could influence annual earnings. GrainCorp's shares fall 8.7% in early trade, with a new A$50 million share buyback program offering only limited support.(david.winning@wsj.com; @dwinningWSJ)

1821 ET - Infrastructure specialist Brookfield Asset Management, originally a Canadian firm now based in New York, believes its "domestically oriented" approach would largely shield its investments from a potential trade war between the U.S. and Canada, CEO Bruce Flatt says during an earnings call. "We own infrastructure and real assets that are integrated into...local communities. We're local in every market that we invest in around the world," he says. "Only a small portion of our business focuses on goods and services that travel across borders." The inflation-tied contracts that Brookfield-backed infrastructure operators typically have with users offer another protection, he adds. "The bulk of our business will be largely insulated from any price increases as a result of tariffs, if they are to be implemented." (luis.garcia@wsj.com; @lhvgarcia)

1817 ET - South32's 1H result should be neutral for shares as solid earnings--in line with consensus estimates--and a modest dividend beat are balanced by ongoing cost pressures, says Citi analyst Paul McTaggart. "Meeting earnings expectations a positive offset by raised 2H FY25 unit cost guidance," he says in a note. Citi has a neutral rating and A$3.90 target on the stock. South32 ended Wednesday at A$3.43/share. (rhiannon.hoyle@wsj.com; @RhiannonHoyle)

1724 ET - Canadian timber company West Fraser already has a few things — namely, high mortgage rates that are making housing less affordable — that are weighing on demand for its products such as lumber. Add the threat of tariffs as another layer of uncertainty. CEO Sean McLaren says in conjunction with 4Q earnings that the potential for the Trump administration to impose broad-based tariffs on Canadian exports "adds another element of demand uncertainty for the produce we ship to the U.S. from Canada." West Fraser is rolling with it, however, and says it can be proactive by focusing on improving the costs across its mills and invest to modernize operations "where it makes sense." (paul.ziobro@wsj.com)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250212016568:0/)
