---
title: "British American Tobacco Misses Expectations, Flags Regulatory Pressure Ahead"
date: "2025-02-13 15:52:00"
summary: "By Michael SusinBritish American Tobacco missed market expectations in 2024 and warned that regulatory and fiscal headwinds will impact sales of its conventional cigarettes.The FTSE 100 cigarette maker--which houses the Kent, Dunhill and Lucky Strike brands--said pretax profit for 2024 was 3.54 billion pounds ($4.41 billion) compared with a loss..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Michael Susin

British American Tobacco missed market expectations in 2024 and warned that regulatory and fiscal headwinds will impact sales of its conventional cigarettes.

The FTSE 100 cigarette maker--which houses the Kent, Dunhill and Lucky Strike brands--said pretax profit for 2024 was 3.54 billion pounds ($4.41 billion) compared with a loss of 17.06 billion pounds in 2023, when it booked a 27.6 billion pounds one-off impairment related to its U.S. business.

New categories products--which includes vapour/heated products and oral pouches--revenue rose 2.5% to 3.42 billion pounds from 3.26 billion pounds, below market consensus of 3.50 billion pounds. The segment is key for British American Tobacco as it seeks to achieve 50% of revenue from smokeless products by 2035.

Revenue for the group as a whole fell 5.2% to 25.87 billion pounds, dragged by the sale of its businesses in Russia and Belarus in September 2023 and foreign-exchange headwinds.

Revenue was forecast at 26.11 billion pounds, according to consensus provided by the company.

Adjusted profit from operations--one of the company's preferred metrics--came in at 11.89 billion pounds, down 0.2% from a year ago and missing a company-provided consensus forecast of 11.95 billion.

The board declared a dividend of 240.24 pence a share, up from 235.52 pence. It also announced a 900 million pounds share buyback program for 2025.

"In 2025, while we expect significant regulatory and fiscal headwinds in Bangladesh and Australia to impact our combustibles performance, I am confident that we will progressively build on our delivery as we shift from investment to deployment," Chief Executive Tadeu Marroco said.

Write to Michael Susin at michael.susin@wsj.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250213003789:0-british-american-tobacco-misses-expectations-flags-regulatory-pressure-ahead/)
