---
title: "European Midday Briefing: Stocks Little Moved Despite Trade Tensions"
date: "2025-02-11 18:11:00"
summary: "MARKET WRAPSStocks:European indices were little changed on Tuesday despite an escalation of trade tensions.The European Commission warned that \" unjustified tariffs on the European Union will not go unanswered\" after the U.S. announced that a 25% levy on steel and aluminum imports would take effect March 4.Elsewhere, an unexpected lower..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

MARKET WRAPS

Stocks:

European indices were little changed on Tuesday despite an escalation of trade tensions.

The European Commission warned that " unjustified tariffs on the European Union will not go unanswered" after the U.S. announced that a 25% levy on steel and aluminum imports would take effect March 4.

Elsewhere, an unexpected lower reading of French unemployment helped to lift the mood, while attention will turn to Capitol Hill later when the Federal Reserve's Jerome Powell begins two days of testimony to Congress.

Economic Insight

It may be too soon to assess the global economic impact of U.S. tariff policies , Manulife Investment Management said.

Investors broadly expect U.S. policies to ultimately result in a much more scaled-back, realistic version of the tariffs that have been announced so far, Manulife said.

The Fed may cut policy interest rates more than expected in the medium term due to the tariff impacts, but the argument for that remains unclear.

Schroders Investment Management said recent market reactions highlight the difficulty investors face in assessing policies such as tariffs.

"Financial markets are not waiting to discover all the details before pricing possible impacts and this is leading to increased volatility across asset classes."

U.S. Markets:

Stock futures were down after President Trump confirmed his latest tariffs plan and ahead of Powell's Congress appearance.

Powell is likely to sound caution on interest-rate cuts during his testimony in which he will deliver prepared remarks and then face questions from lawmakers.

On the earnings front, big names such as Coca-Cola are due to report.

Forex:

The euro could weaken further as U.S.-eurozone interest rate differentials move against the single currency ahead of potential U.S. trade tariffs, ING said.

After Trump's metal tariffs announcement, Europe is bracing for levies on other sectors, such as autos, although politicians are likely concerned about broader tariffs.

"Whatever today's news on tariffs, wide rate spreads justify the euro continuing to trade near $1.03 and undermine the need for any corrective bounce."

The euro could fall towards the $1.0250-60 range or lower if Trump delivers new tariffs, according to ING.

Sterling trimmed losses while yields on gilts rose slightly after Bank of England official Catherine Mann suggested interest rates would need to remain high.

Mann was one of two BOE policymakers who preferred a larger 50 basis-point interest-rate cut on Thursday.

On Tuesday, she said data point to a "non-linear" fall in employment. This allowed her to look past a likely near-term inflation rise, but going forward she prefers gradual rate cuts.

Observed inflation volatility "likely requires a higher Bank rate than otherwise," she said.

The dollar traded steady ahead of Powell's testimony.

The Fed chair is expected to sound cautious about cutting interest rates, though there's mounting pressure from President Trump to lower rates, Swissquote Bank said.

U.S. growth remains solid, the jobs market healthy, and inflation sticky, while Trump's growth-boosting policies and tariff threats could increase inflation, Swissquote noted.

A cautious stance from Powell would potentially boost the dollar.

Bonds:

Trump's recent comments on Treasurys seem concerning to Pepperstone but tariffs still appear to be front of mind for market participants.

Trump suggested Sunday that the government's efficiency team had found irregularities that could mean the U.S.'s debt obligations are lower than thought, potentially implying that some payments could be disregarded.

"Much more of this talk and participants will have little-to-no choice but to attach a higher risk premium to U.S. debt, and perhaps even be forced to sell Treasury holdings," Pepperstone said.

That said, markets remain focused on tariffs for now even as fatigue on that front seems to be settling in.

Treasurys took the comments in stride, with little changes on Monday, or Tuesday overnight.

LBBW said the Fed will be closely monitoring to ensure that inflation expectations do not spiral out of control,confirming its view that the fed funds rate will not be lowered again until the end of this year.

"If the next interest rate move actually goes up in view of the inflation risks, the yields on long-term U.S. government bonds are likely to skyrocket ."

Energy:

Oil extended gains from the previous trading session despite fears that President Trump's trade tariffs might hurt global growth.

Prices were boosted by signs of tighter supplies and rising geopolitical tensions.

According to a Bloomberg report, Russian oil production slipped further below the country's OPEC+ quota in January, easing concerns over an oversupplied market even if the Kremlin still has to make up for past overproduction.

Meanwhile, Russia and Ukraine continue to exchange attacks targeting energy infrastructure.

Traders now await Powell's testimony before Congress for cues on future rate policy, as higher rates could slow oil-demand growth.

Metals:

Gold futures rose after setting a fresh record earlier in the session.

Gold and the U.S. dollar both extended gains, fuelled by fresh tariff threats from President Trump, Swissquote Bank said.

China, Turkey, India and Eastern European nations among others are continuing to buy gold to build their reserves of assets that don't carry Trump or U.S. risks.

While the tight trade and geopolitical environment could get tenser and uglier very quickly, gold remains the ultimate Trump hedge, and makes $3,000 an ounce easily achievable, according to Swissquote.

Heightened volatility will likely keep demand for gold strong and sticky, Maybank said after the haven asset broke above the $2,900/oz mark.

It noted reports of a shortage of bullion due to a rush in gold shipments in anticipation of tariffs.

Base metals fell, but copper and aluminum prices were both up on-week.

Assuming there are no exemptions to Trump's latest plan, aluminum and steel tariffs will largely be passed through to U.S. prices only, Goldman Sachs said.

EMEA HEADLINES

BOE Key Rate Should Remain 'Well Above' Neutral, Mann Says

The Bank of England's key interest rate should continue to restrain economic activity to ensure that households and businesses don't act in ways that would prolong a coming pickup in inflation, a member of the Monetary Policy Committee said Tuesday.

Catherine L. Mann on Thursday surprised investors by voting to lower the key interest rate by half of a percentage point, a larger move than that favored by the majority. Mann had on a number of previous occasions voted for a higher rate of interest than that favored by the majority.

BP Announces Strategy Reset to Focus on Cash Flow, Returns

BP said profit fell more than expected and that it would reset its strategy, days after reports that activist hedge fund Elliott Management is pushing for change at the company.

The British oil and gas giant's Chief Executive Murray Auchincloss said the company would continue to reshape its portfolio and has made strong progress in cutting costs. BP now plans to change its strategy in order to grow cash flow and shareholder returns, and will present its strategy at its capital markets day scheduled for Feb. 26.

UniCredit Guides For Flat Profit This Year With Higher Returns

UniCredit guided for stable profit in 2025 and promised increased shareholder returns despite an expected dip in revenue as lower interest rates eat into its top line.

The Italian bank on Tuesday said it expects this year's net profit to be broadly in line with 2024's result of 9.31 billion euros ($9.60 billion). UniCredit's net profit metric is adjusted for previous year's tax losses from deferred tax assets-balance-sheet items reducing future tax obligations.

Gucci Parent Kering Posts Revenue Slump

Gucci owner Kering's revenue fell by less than analysts expected in the fourth quarter, at a time when some peers have pointed to signs of a rebound in luxury demand.

The French luxury group booked revenue of 4.39 billion euros ($4.52 billion) for the last quarter of 2024, 12% lower than in the prior-year period. The result compares with analysts' forecasts of 4.23 billion euros, according to a poll of estimates compiled by Visible Alpha.

GLOBAL NEWS

China's Xi Is Building an Economic Fortress Against U.S. Pressure

A day in China could easily start like this: Roll out of bed and swipe through WeChat messages on your Huawei smartphone. Hop into a BYD electric car and drive to the railroad station, where a high-speed train from a state-run factory whisks you to your destination. Chinese-designed nuclear plants, solar farms and wind turbines power the city's lights.

China is racing to make itself less reliant on the outside world's products and technology-part of a yearslong effort by leader Xi Jinping to make China more self-sufficient and impervious to Western pressure as tensions with the U.S. rise. Beijing has poured hundreds of billions of dollars into favored industries, especially in high-end manufacturing, while exhorting business leaders to fall in line with the government's priorities.

Chinese Auto Sales Fell in January on Subdued Demand

China's vehicle sales fell in January, pressured by subdued demand and a front-loading effect from the previous month.

Retail sales of passenger cars fell 12.1% to 1.79 million vehicles in January from a year earlier, the China Passenger Car Association said Tuesday. Sales declined 32% from December, remaining at historically low levels, the CPCA added.

Trump Imposes Global 25% Steel, Aluminum Tariffs

WASHINGTON-President Trump on Monday announced 25% tariffs on imports of steel and aluminum to the U.S., reinstating global duties without exceptions for allies such as Canada, Mexico, Japan and South Korea that were relaxed by the Biden administration.

"It's a big deal. This is the beginning of making America rich again," Trump said in the Oval Office, as he signed dual executive orders for steel and aluminum tariffs. "No exceptions, no nothing," Trump added.

New Restraints at Education Department Jam Civil Rights Enforcement

Civil rights enforcement at the U.S. Department of Education has slowed in recent weeks, with some staff in the office that handles cases being told they can't communicate externally, according to people within the agency.

The Office for Civil Rights is charged with enforcing bans on discrimination based on sex, race, age and disability status in schools and universities nationwide. Families can file a complaint if their child is, for instance, denied access to a school field trip because of a disability. Civil rights staffers normally communicate with schools and families to investigate and resolve complaints.

Write to gareth.mcpherson@wsj.com

Write to us at newsletters@dowjones.com

We offer an enhanced version of this briefing that is optimized for viewing on mobile devices and sent directly to your email inbox. If you would like to sign up, please go to https://newsplus.wsj.com/subscriptions.

This article is a text version of a Wall Street Journal newsletter published earlier today.

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250211002303:0/)
