---
title: "Global Commodities Roundup: Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-10 22:15:00"
summary: "The latest Market Talks covering Commodities. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.0915 ET - McDonald's says consumers across its markets remained pressured in 2024, particularly low-income diners and families, but believes the picture will improve this year. The company says in a 4Q investor call that its..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The latest Market Talks covering Commodities. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.

0915 ET - McDonald's says consumers across its markets remained pressured in 2024, particularly low-income diners and families, but believes the picture will improve this year. The company says in a 4Q investor call that its financial expectations this year reflect a "gradual stabilization of the macroeconomic and consumer environment." Its financial growth targets don't include any impact from potential new tariffs from the Trump administration, however. McDonald's is up 2.6% premarket. (heather.haddon@wsj.com; @heatherhaddon)

0857 ET - Oil futures start the week higher after three consecutive weeks of losses as the U.S. plans to place tariffs on all steel and aluminum imports while Chinese retaliatory tariffs on U.S. oil and gas go into effect. The steel and aluminum tariffs "are apparently supportive to oil, dollar, equities, etc.," Ritterbusch says in a note. "Geopolitical premium that had supported oil values across last year have now been replaced by a tariff premium that will remain elevated for at least another three weeks until a White House decision is made regarding hefty tariffs on Canada and Mexico that will directly impact the flow of crude into the U.S.," the firm adds. WTI is up 1.3% at $71.91 a barrel, and Brent is up 1.2% at $75.56 a barrel. (anthony.harrup@wsj.com)

0849 ET - Canada stands to bear the brunt of the pain from President Trump's 25% tariff on steel and aluminum tariffs. Canada is the top exporter to the U.S. of steel, accounting for about 25% of steel imports, via the International Trade Administration. Mexico is No. 2 at about 15%. Canada is by far the biggest seller to the US of aluminum, accounting for 60% of imports. Canada won a reprieve last week on 25% tariffs on all its nonenergy US-bound exports, which Trump says he will revisit early next month to ensure Ottawa is living up to its commitment to fortify border security and deter fentanyl trafficking. (Paul.Vieira@wsj.com, @paulvieira)

0803 ET - Base metal prices are mixed, with LME three-month copper down 0.3% at $9,408 a metric ton and LME three-month aluminum up 0.2% at $2,632.50 a ton. LME aluminum has been holding steady after President Trump said he will impose 25% tariffs on all imports of aluminum and steel into the U.S. The U.S. imports significant volumes of aluminum and steel from Canada, and with Trump back in the White House, uncertainty and unpredictability are running high, ING analysts say in a note. A prolonged trade conflict will slow global growth and hit industrial metals demand, ING says. In 2018, Trump imposed 10% and 25% tariffs on imported aluminum and steel respectively to boost domestic production--the duties on Mexico and Canada were lifted a year later after a new free trade agreement with the U.S., ING adds. (joseph.hoppe@wsj.com)

0758 ET - ArcelorMittal says urgent support is needed to bolster the competitiveness and sustainability of European steelmaking, just as the U.S. is expected to put 25% tariffs on steel and aluminium imports. The Luxembourg-based steelmaker said it supports trade measures designed to protect the steel sector from unfair trade practices and address the glut in market. It says the steel industry is contending with significant excess global capacity with the market in Europe facing subdued demand and record-high imports. Foreign steel imports to Europe hold a 27% market share, ArcelorMittal says. Shares trade down 2.2% at 26.77 euros. (pierre.bertrand@wsj.com)

0742 ET - Gold futures rise to fresh highs as market concerns around President Trump's tariffs grow. Futures are up 1.5% at $2,931.20 a troy ounce, having risen as high as $2,934.10 an ounce earlier in the session. Safe-haven demand for gold is surging as anxiety mounts around the potential hit to global economic growth prospects from the new U.S. administration's protectionist drive, as well as its inflationary effect on U.S. domestic prices, says ActivTrades' Ricardo Evangelista. The risk-off sentiment was amplified by a new round of levies on steel and aluminum Trump announced over the weekend, as well as reiterated threats to match tariffs imposed by other countries on U.S. exports, Evangelista says in a note. "Against this backdrop, gold risk remains tilted to the upside, with further price gains possible in the near term," he adds. (joseph.hoppe@wsj.com)

0700 ET - Norsk Hydro has more than 20 sites in the U.S., as well as plants in Mexico and Canada that could be affected by U.S. tariffs on steel and aluminum imports, a spokesman for the company said. Though the company allocates most of its annual Norwegian aluminum production to the European market, it has close to 6,000 employees in the U.S. The aluminum and renewable-energy company says it is preparing for different scenarios but that it is still too early to say how tariffs would affect its operations in the long term. President Trump announced plans to introduce 25% tariffs on imports of steel and aluminum on every nation exporting the metals to the U.S. Norsk Hydro shares trade 0.2% lower at 67.68 Norwegian kroner. (pierre.bertrand@wsj.com)

0615 ET - Shares of U.S. steelmakers rise premarket after President Trump said he plans to impose 25% tariffs Monday on steel and aluminum imports. U.S. Steel shares are up 8.3% in premarket trading after closing last week at $36.93. Nucor shares are also up 8.5%, while Steel Dynamics shares are 5.7% higher. Nucor shares closed last week at $130.26 while Steel Dynamics closed at $126.71. President Trump announced plans to introduce 25% tariffs on imports of steel and aluminum, with the levies applying to every nation exporting the metals to the U.S. (pierre.bertrand@wsj.com)

0517 ET - U.S. tariffs on steel imports would only have a very limited impact on Thyssenkrupp at present, a spokesman for the company says. Europe is the German industrial and steel group's main market for steel and what the company does export to the U.S. is negligible and mostly concerns high-quality products, the company says. Sales in the U.S. are mainly from Thyssenkrupp's trading business and its automotive supply business, operations which are supported by a significant share of local manufacturing, Thyssenkrupp says. The company adds that much of the production for U.S. customers takes place within the U.S., which minimizes the risks associated with tariffs. Thyssenkrupp says, however, that it is monitoring developments. Shares trade up 0.07% to 4.59 euros. (pierre.bertrand@wsj.com)

0514 ET - Crude palm oil ended higher, rallying above MYR4600 on bullish sentiment after the Malaysian Palm Oil Board report, which showed another month of decline in stock levels in the country, according to David Ng, a trader at Kuala Lumpur-based Iceberg X. Weaker-than-expected output growth also maintained the positive sentiment in the market, he adds. Ng sees support at MYR4,500 and resistance at MYR4,700. The Bursa Malaysia Derivatives contract for April delivery rose MYR91 to MYR4,595 a ton. (tracy.qu@wsj.com)

0451 ET - Johnson Matthey's Chairman Patrick Thomas not seeking reelection, and the naming of Richard Pike as CFO designate could be seen as greater willingness, or urgency, to improve the company's financial metrics, Jefferies analysts say. These moves could also provide share price support, they say in a note. The move by the chemicals company comes after a period of enhanced pressure from Standard Investments, its largest shareholder, which has called for greater focus on cash generation and shareholder returns, Jefferies says. Shares are up 1% at 1,436 pence, and are up 7.2% in the year to date.(anthony.orunagoriainoff@dowjones.com)

0434 ET - European steel and aluminum stocks mostly edge lower in early trading amid expectations that the US will place 25% tariffs on steel and aluminum imports. Among the biggest fallers are Austria's Voestalpine, with shares down 1.5%, and steelmaker ArcelorMittal, which trades 2.6% lower. In Germany, shares in steel company Salzgitter and Thyssenkrupp fall. Luxembourg-based stainless steelmaker Aperam trades 1.8% lower and shares in Finland-based Outokumpu fall slightly, too. Among Europe's aluminum producers, Norsk Hydro shares are 1.1% lower. (pierre.bertrand@wsj.com)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250210005983:0/)
