---
title: "European Gas Prices Drop After U.S.-Russia Talks Over Ukraine"
date: "2025-02-13 23:24:00"
summary: "By Giulia PetroniEuropean natural-gas prices dropped as much as 8.2% in afternoon trade after the U.S. and the Kremlin agreed to start talks to end the war in Ukraine, raising prospects that Russian flows could soon resume.The benchmark front-month gas contract at the Dutch TTF hub was trading at 51.75..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Giulia Petroni

European natural-gas prices dropped as much as 8.2% in afternoon trade after the U.S. and the Kremlin agreed to start talks to end the war in Ukraine, raising prospects that Russian flows could soon resume.

The benchmark front-month gas contract at the Dutch TTF hub was trading at 51.75 euros a megawatt hour on Thursday, after breaking above 58 euros earlier this week--its highest level in two years.

"In the event of a ceasefire deal between Russia and Ukraine, we could see a sharp increase in Russian flows," analysts at DNB Markets said.

Flows of Russian gas via Ukraine were halted on Jan. 1 after a prewar transit deal expired, reducing supplies and causing disruptions for European countries like Slovakia and Austria. In order to offset losses and replenish fast depleting inventories, the European Union is now expected to significantly boost imports of liquefied natural gas.

Meanwhile, some countries in Europe are reportedly pushing for more flexibility on the refilling requirements for gas storage ahead of the next winter season amid widespread concerns over storage levels.

According to Reuters and Bloomberg reports, European Union countries are set to discuss the possibility of relaxing the bloc's targets at a meeting on Thursday.

"The European Commission launched last year levels throughout the calendar year which the inventories must meet," DNB Markets analysts said. "This restricts the full utilization of the inventories, removing flexibility, and therefore tightening the market."

EU members are required to have storage facilities filled to at least 90% of their capacity by Nov. 1.

As a result of colder temperatures and lower wind-power generation, gas storage in the European Union was only 47.2% full as of Tuesday, a level expected to make restocking efforts challenging over the summer.

Adding to the pressure, gas contracts for summer deliveries have been trading above winter contracts, offering little incentive to store gas. Buyers typically take advantage of cheaper summer prices to purchase and store gas to then sell it for a profit in the winter.

Write to Giulia Petroni at giulia.petroni@wsj.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250213011046:0/)
