---
title: "Global Forex and Fixed Income Roundup: Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-12 21:44:00"
summary: "The latest Market Talks covering FX and Fixed Income. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.0844 ET - Eurozone government bond yields jump on above-expectations January U.S. CPI data, confirming the Federal Reserve's stance on not hurrying to cut interest rates. \"The January U.S. CPI figures will be..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The latest Market Talks covering FX and Fixed Income. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.

0844 ET - Eurozone government bond yields jump on above-expectations January U.S. CPI data, confirming the Federal Reserve's stance on not hurrying to cut interest rates. "The January U.S. CPI figures will be grim reading for the FOMC," says Pepperstone's Michael Brown in a note. The data could well have been influenced by one-off factors, however, such as the typical chunky price rises that are often seen at the start of the year, the senior research strategist says. Eurozone bond yields rise about 3 basis points in both the short and long ends of the curve versus levels before the data. The 10-year Bund yield rises 3.5 basis points to 2.478% from before, while the 2-year Schatz yield jumps to 2.146% from 2.115% beforehand, according to Tradeweb. (emese.bartha@wsj.com)

0835 ET - Gold futures slide ahead of crucial U.S. economic data, though they remain close to record highs. Futures are down 1.2% at $2,898.90 a troy ounce, having reached a record of $2,968.50 a troy ounce in the prior session. Gold's decline reflects Federal Reserve comments that the U.S. economy is robust and indicating no urgency to implement interest rate cuts, says SHR Capital's Salem Alremeithi. Higher rates typically damp investor enthusiasm for non-interest bearing bullion. That said, the Fed is ready to adjust rates should inflation fall or employment conditions worsen. Market focus is now on the Consumer Price Index report due today and Thursday's Producer Price Index data, he says. If inflation figures exceed expectations, it could exert further downward pressure on gold. Gold preciously found support from increased safe-haven demand, particularly after President Trump's aggressive tariff announcements, Alremeithi adds. (joseph.hoppe@wsj.com)

0826 ET - The Canadian dollar could fall if the Bank of Canada's latest summary of monetary policy deliberations show concerns about the economic outlook amid the risk of U.S. tariffs, Monex Europe analysts say in a note. Recent comments from BOC policymakers signal a preference for ending the interest rate cutting cycle. This is "at odds with underlying economic fundamentals and the adverse backdrop posed by potential Trump tariffs," the analysts say. The BOC's internal discussions at the last policy meeting likely gave more thought to this economic backdrop. A hint in this direction could lift USD/CAD further. USD/CAD rises 0.1% to 1.4299. The BOC summary will be released at 1830 GMT. (renae.dyer@wsj.com)

0820 ET - The Swiss franc could weaken against the dollar as the exchange rate's correlation with U.S. Treasury yields improves, Bank of America forex strategists say in a note. USD/CHF has lagged the rise in 10-year U.S. yields given the franc's strong link to gold and precious metals, they say. A rise in gold prices in recent years has caused wider Swiss trade surpluses as Switzerland remains the world's largest refiner of gold and precious metals. While Switzerland's current account position remains healthy, due to gold, it has recorded four consecutive quarterly basic balance deficits. "This gives us greater conviction that Swiss franc weakness will be more durable in 2025." However, demand for gold means any franc depreciation will be gradual. (renae.dyer@wsj.com)

0751 ET - The cost of insuring China's sovereign debt against default using credit default swaps falls to a two-year low, boosted by news about AI advancements from Chinese companies. Stocks of Chinese electric vehicle manufacturer BYD have rallied following news that it plans to integrate software from AI company DeepSeek in its cars, Swissquote Bank's Ipek Ozkardeskaya says in a note. "Chinese tech stocks are surfing on the DeepSeek wave," she says. China's five-year credit default swaps fall 4 basis points to 49bps, a low last reached in January 2023, S&P Global Market Intelligence data show. (miriam.mukuru@wsj.com)

0720 ET - Most Canadians are worried about retirement, a Bank of Montreal survey finds. It notes that 76% of Canadians are worried about not having enough money in retirement because of rising prices, and 63% believe price increases over the past 12 months have limited their ability to save for retirement. On average, those surveyed believe they will need just over C$1.54 million to retire, down from C$1.67 million in 2023. "The spike in prices as the economy emerged from the pandemic is a stark reminder rising prices can affect spending, investment and savings plans," says BMO senior economist Robert Kavcic. The online survey of 1,500 adults was conducted in November. (robb.stewart@wsj.com)

0658 ET - The European Commission's plan to withdraw proposed new patent rules for standardized technologies sends a 'terrible signal' to innovative businesses, who rely on fair licensing, the Fair Standards Alliance says. The FSA is a lobby group backed by smartphone makers such as Apple and auto groups like BMW and Ford. It says scrapping the regulation goes against a call by former European Central Bank President Mario Draghi to create policies that make it easier for businesses in the bloc to innovate. "We urge the commission to reconsider," the group says. (edith.hancock@wsj.com)

0643 ET - The dollar could fall slightly further if U.S. inflation data at 1330 GMT are lower than expected, ING's Chris Turner says in a note. Annual benchmark revisions to inflation increase the risk that the January print is 0.2% on-month versus the 0.3% expected, he says. This could give the Federal Reserve slightly more confidence in the disinflation process and prompt markets to price in more interest rate cuts for 2025, he says. Given some sense of financial market stability as U.S. interest rate volatility falls, the DXY dollar index could fall to 107.300 from 107.883 currently. However, any announcement of new tariffs from President Trump would "easily blow any ideas of a dollar correction out of the water." (renae.dyer@wsj.com)

0626 ET - The allotment yield levels at Portugal's government bond auction on Wednesday are within the average levels recorded in recent months, Banco Carregosa's Filipe Silva says in a post-auction comment. Portugal's debt agency sold a total of 1.496 billion euros in 2034-, 2042- and 2052-dated bonds with allotment yields at 2.786%, 3.342% and 3.433%, respectively. "Currently, we are in a context of falling interest rates, however, longer maturities reflect expectations of several rate cuts by the European Central Bank," the investment director says. This was Portugal's first government bond auction this year, but it already carried out a 4 billion-euro syndicated issue of a 10-year bond in January. Portugal also had a bond buyback auction in January. (emese.bartha@wsj.com)

0558 ET - The sharp fall in India's headline consumer price inflation in January vindicates last week's rate cut by the RBI, and suggests that more easing lies in store, says Harry Chambers at Capital Economics. Food inflation will likely continue easing, and given softer economic growth, underlying price pressures will be capped, the assistant economist adds. With inflation moderating and the RBI's focus pivoting to boosting economic growth, Chambers expects another 75 bps of cuts this year as the central bank continues to loosen policy over the coming months to support the economy. (kimberley.kao@wsj.com)

0554 ET - The cost of insuring euro credit against default using credit default swaps falls ahead of the release of the U.S. inflation data at 1330 GMT. U.S. annual headline inflation is likely to steady near 2.9% and core inflation may have decelerated to 3.1% from 3.2%, Swissquote Bank's Ipek Ozkardeskaya says in a note. "A set of softer-than-expected inflation numbers could help sooth inflation worries," she says. The iTraxx Europe Crossover index which tracks euro junk bond credit default swaps declines 1 basis point to 287bps, S&P Global Market Intelligence data show. The iTraxx Europe Senior Financials index which tracks euro investment-grade financial bond CDS falls 1 basis point to 58bps. (miriam.mukuru@wsj.com)

0536 ET - Modest fiscal expansion in Germany--if this is implemented after the upcoming elections on Feb. 23--wouldn't change investment fundamentals for German and European assets, says State Street Global Advisors. "Weak economic growth, albeit stronger than in 2024, coupled with falling inflation will keep bond yields in decline and the euro weak in the near term," it says. However, greater issuance of Bunds and the growth gap in favor of Europe's periphery imply narrower spreads between Bunds and peripheral bonds, it says. France is an exception, where political paralysis and fiscal excess will likely weigh on long-dated government bonds. Unlike Germany, most other eurozone countries have little scope for public spending. (emese.bartha@wsj.com)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250212008090:0/)
