---
title: "Tech, Media & Telecom Roundup: Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-11 17:20:00"
summary: "The latest Market Talks covering Technology, Media and Telecom. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires at 4:20 ET, 12:20 ET and 16:50 ET.0859 GMT - The Indian equities selloff has opened up opportunities, HSBC strategists say. They see the software sector as showing improving growth prospects, adding that it stands..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The latest Market Talks covering Technology, Media and Telecom. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires at 4:20 ET, 12:20 ET and 16:50 ET.

0859 GMT - The Indian equities selloff has opened up opportunities, HSBC strategists say. They see the software sector as showing improving growth prospects, adding that it stands to gain from a weak rupee. Lenders can benefit from less restrictive monetary policy, and they also like consumer names that can tap India's rural demand recovery or markets overseas. They favor electronics maker Dixon, which is supported by industry and policy tailwinds. Automaker Maruti Suzuki stands out for its export potential and rural market positioning, while insurance platform PB Fintech can grow at 2X-3X the industry rate thanks to competitive advantages. HSBC also likes Godrej Properties, whose large land bank lets it grow in tough times, and LTIMindtree, which is well-placed for rising IT services demand. HSBC has buy calls on all five. (fabiana.negrinochoa@wsj.com)

0808 GMT - Ams-Osram's guidance for the first quarter points to a weaker performance, as previously flagged, but it isn't worse than feared, Vontobel's Mark Diethelm says in a research note. The European electronics company expects first-quarter revenue of between 750 million and 850 million euros, with an adjusted Ebitda margin of 14.5% to 17.5%. Ams-Osram will continue to face challenges in the first half of 2025 due to weak demand and continued inventory adjustments, the analyst says. However, it said it expects a meaningfully stronger second half of the year. "Overall, the message is consistent and we do not expect material consensus estimate adjustments," the analyst says. Shares jump 14%. (adria.calatayud@wsj.com)

0803 GMT - Bitcoin rises following a rally in U.S. tech stocks overnight, XTB's Kathleen Brooks says in a note. Tech stocks are recovering from a recent selloff led by concerns that Chinese startup DeepSeek's new artificial intelligence could threaten America's dominance in the sector. "Big money is betting that tech will resume its leadership of the U.S. stock market," Brooks says. This suggests stocks could remain resilient to President Trump's tariff threats and his stance on trade policy won't have a negative effect on inflation or global growth. Bitcoin's gains is another sign it is moving closely with U.S. tech stocks. Bitcoin rises 0.9% to $98,303, according to LSEG. (renae.dyer@wsj.com)

0653 GMT - The buzz around AI firm DeepSeek is shining the spotlight on companies tied to tech giant ByteDance, Daiwa analysts write in a note. DeepSeek's arrival has fueled sentiment around AI, spilling over into companies that do business with ByteDance, which has its own AI chatbot. That's brought some of the company's major listed suppliers like Accelink Technologies, a maker of optical components and photo-electronic devices, onto investors' radar, the analysts say. GigaDevice Semiconductor, a memory chip provider, is reaping the benefits, as are ByteDance suppliers Shenzhen Woer and Broadex, which respectively specialize in power cables & shrinkable tubes, and electronic components, they add. (jiahui.huang@wsj.com; @ivy\_jiahuihuang)

0432 GMT - Swiggy's long-term growth outlook appears robust, Citi research analyst Vijit Jain says in a note. The Indian startup's business execution across food delivery and quick commerce has improved this fiscal year, with innovation and adoption strategies that are critical given the fierce competition in the sectors it operates in, Jain says. While Swiggy's valuation reflects competition and profitability concerns, the analyst views these headwinds as short-term. Swiggy could become profitable in 2026, and there is upside from sustained discipline in its business execution, Jain adds. Citi initiates coverage of the stock with a buy rating and INR480 target price. Shares are 1.5% lower at INR356.60. (kimberley.kao@wsj.com)

2325 GMT - SGH's shares rise 9% soon after Australia's market opens, with Jefferies calling out profit margins at building materials unit Boral as the highlight of its 1H result. SGH reported a 14.3% Ebit margin for Boral in 1H, well above consensus forecasts of 11.7%. That drove a 9% beat to market hopes for Boral's Ebit. "Margin delivery is impressive given weaker volumes and likely operating deleverage," analyst Kai Erman says. SGH reaffirmed expectations for high single-digit Ebit growth in FY 2025, which Jefferies considers to be conservative. Jefferies retains a hold call on SGH. (david.winning@wsj.com; @dwinningWSJ)

2223 GMT - Industrial conglomerate SGH's shares could outperform Australia's benchmark ASX today after its 1H Ebit beat consensus hopes. SGH reported Ebit of A$843 million, up 10% on year and supported by better-than-expected margins at construction unit Boral. In a note, Barrenjoey says consensus forecasts had pointed to 5% Ebit growth. Still, SGH maintained guidance for high single-digit growth in annual Ebit, which implies a slower pace of improvement in 2H. "For FY 2025, consensus interest and tax forecasts will need to rise, which may drive negative EPS revisions," says analyst Brook Campbell-Crawford. "However, we think the large operational beat is enough for the shares to outperform." Barrenjoey has an overweight call on SGH, which ended Monday at A$48.66. (david.winning@wsj.com; @dwinningWSJ)

1825 GMT - Shopify may come out unscathed from a tariff situation, says RWM Commerce Consulting CEO Rick Watson. "I am not sure it significantly changes the game for Shopify or its merchants. They have not been overly advantaged or disadvantaged," he says. The company has come out in support of free trade, since 15% of its business is cross-border, they benefit more from fewer walls in place. "It's a similar statement to what you might have seen someone like eBay say in years past," he says. Watson notes that chaos in general is not good for any business, so it could create some corporate indecision in the short-term, but this should settle down at some point." (adriano.marchese@wsj.com)

1741 GMT - Expedia surged 17% on Friday after beating on 4Q top and bottom lines and reinstating its quarterly dividend, but D.A. Davidson says 1Q initial guidance was mixed. As a result, analysts Tom White and Wyatt Swanson say they're trimming forecasts on incremental foreign exchange headwinds, but bumping up targets on an improved underlying growth profile. The analysts say their neutral rating takes into account "the company's solid category position in an overall healthy/resilient leisure travel market," and its leading position in an expanding B2B market. But, they question the pace of recovery in Expedia's Vrbo and Hotels.com brands as well as and the company's ability "to meaningfully close its overall profitability/margin gap vs. peers." Expedia is up 0.3% to $202.81.(sabela.ojea@wsj.com; @sabelaojeaguix)

1549 GMT - Corporate bonds issued by companies within U.S. tech, auto and basic materials sectors have a higher exposure to foreign revenue and are more vulnerable to tariffs implemented by President Trump, BNP Paribas credit strategists say in a note. Issuers within services sectors, however, such as healthcare and cruise companies, have lower foreign sales and are better placed to avoid the negative impacts of tariffs, the strategists say. (miriam.mukuru@wsj.com)

1251 GMT - Dutch telecommunications company KPN is marketing a new euro-denominated 10-year bond. The deal offers investors a generous valuation, with an initial price talk of mid-swap rate plus 150 basis points, CreditSights analysts say in a note. The initial price talk implies around 45 basis points new issue concession compared with other similar KPN bonds, the analysts say. "We expect the initial price talk to be tightened up, and we would be buyers north of mid-swap rate plus 120 basis points (around 3.5% yield)," CreditSights says. KPN credit is likely to perform in line with other credit from similar companies in the same sector, says CreditSights, which has a market perform rating on the company's debt. (miriam.mukuru@wsj.com)

1043 GMT - Nokia's appointment of Intel's head of data-center and artificial-intelligence as its new CEO reflects the company's shift in strategic focus, Inderes analyst Atte Riikola writes. Riikola says Nokia is increasingly focusing on network infrastructure, where data centers and AI investments are creating new growth opportunities. "We see this as a justified direction, as Nokia's longer-term growth prospects for mobile networks clearly look more modest than for network infrastructure." The analyst says the appointment of Justin Hotard once again raises the question of whether there could be structural changes in the core mobile networks business. "On paper, this would be an interesting option, but in practice it would be very challenging to implement." Shares trade 2.2% higher at 4.76 euros. (dominic.chopping@wsj.com)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250211001964:0/)
