---
title: "Global Equities Roundup: Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-12 16:27:00"
summary: "The latest Market Talks covering Equities. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.0827 GMT - Pop Mart International is likely to benefit from popular IPs, says Jessie Xu of Deutsche Bank Research. She highlights that Pop Mart's Ne Zha toys are sold out across channels and regions in..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The latest Market Talks covering Equities. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.

0827 GMT - Pop Mart International is likely to benefit from popular IPs, says Jessie Xu of Deutsche Bank Research. She highlights that Pop Mart's Ne Zha toys are sold out across channels and regions in China following the release of China-produced animated film "Ne Zha 2." Industry expectations for the movie's box-office total have been raised every day since its debut, and the film could remain popular for some time with Chinese national pride on the rise, Xu adds. Meanwhile, CryBaby, Pop Mart's art toy with a cute character, is fast becoming the next blockbuster IP, taking more shelf space in the stores Deutsche visits, the analyst says in a note. She keeps a buy rating on the stock and raises the target price to HK$114.00 from HK$108.00. Shares end 0.4% lower at HK$104.30. (tracy.qu@wsj.com)

0825 GMT - JD.com's new entry to the food-delivery business shouldn't affect Meituan's market-leading position among restaurant merchants given the latter's strong conversion rate, Citi analysts write in a note. JD has begun inviting merchants to join its food-delivery app and has waived commission fees for merchants that on-board before May 1, they note. The move reflects JD's efforts to better leverage logistics unit Dada's resources and capacity to improve operating efficiency, and enhances Dada's revenue sources, they say. The incremental cost of getting into the food-delivery business is likely manageable for JD's financials, and the company should remain prudent with incentives, based on its track record, Citi says. (jiahui.huang@wsj.com; @ivy\_jiahuihuang)

0818 GMT - The outperformance of eurozone equities this year, with several indexes hitting record highs, is unlikely to offer much support to the euro, ING analyst Chris Turner says in a note. Periods of rotation into eurozone equities have helped the euro in the past as equity investments are largely non-foreign exchange hedged, he says. "Frankly, it's hard to see such optimism coming through for the euro today." Growth remains weak, fiscal policy support is lacking and the European Central Bank could cut interest rates by another 100 basis points this year. That means any recovery in the euro could be limited. The euro rises 0.1% to $1.0376.(renae.dyer@wsj.com)

0809 GMT - China could double subsidies aimed at boosting consumption to 300 billion yuan in 2025, Citi analysts say in a research note. New tranches of subsidies, on top of the ones announced in January, could be rolled out as early as March during the National People's Congress, they say. China's 150 billion yuan subsidy in 2024 supported around 1.3 trillion yuan of retail sales, according to the Commerce Department data. Citi expects the new trade-in subsidies to support sales growth for major home-appliance players in 2Q and further alleviate investors' concerns that their sales growth will slow after 1Q.(sherry.qin@wsj.com)

0805 GMT - The extension of a trade-in program in China to boost auto demand isn't expected to materially drive up sales given a gloomy economic outlook and global trade tensions, S&P Global Ratings analysts say in a report. Meanwhile, intense price competition in the Chinese car sector may not ebb until "more competitors are shaken out, a process that could take several years," and could involve exits by some foreign brands that have lagged behind in the EV transition, S&P says. The ratings firm projects 0%-2% growth in the country's domestic light vehicle unit sales this year on cautious consumer sentiment over big-ticket items. (hoishan.chan@wsj.com)

0752 GMT - H&M will likely be a private company by 2030, assuming the controlling Persson family reinvests all of their forecast dividends and the company buys back around 1% of the equity each year, Deutsche Bank analyst Adam Cochrane writes. However, given the current picture of sales, gross margin and operating expenditure, the bank thinks forecasts could be at risk for five years and, with any further downgrades, the dividend may be put at risk which would delay share purchases by the Persson family. "Many view H&M as continuing to be a structural loser." Deutsche Bank downgrades the stock to hold from buy and lowers its target price to 190 Swedish kronor from 160 kronor. Shares closed at 150.20 kronor. (dominic.chopping@wsj.com)

0750 GMT - European utilities are likely to be perceived as meaningful losers from a ceasefire between Ukraine and Russia, especially those in the U.K. and Northern Europe, J.P. Morgan analysts say. Investors could infer that Russia would resume selling pipeline gas to Europe again, putting downward pressure on European gas and power prices, they write in a research note. That situation could offer an entry point for equities such as Engie and RWE, they note. The restoration of pipeline flows from Russia might not be immediate or significant because of a number of infrastructure constraints, legal obstacles and numerous pendingarbitration cases between Gazprom and former European counterparts in gas contracts, the analysts say. Enel and Endesa could outperform in the near future because they sell more power than they produce, the analysts add. (cristina.gallardo@wsj.com)

0744 GMT - Banco BPM's better-than-expected new business plan targets to 2027 and the increase of its takeover offer for asset manager Anima should be well received by the market, Keefe, Bruyette & Woods analysts Hugo Cruz and Ben Maher say in a research note. The higher bid increases the likelihood of success for the transaction, which BPM assumes will go through and takes into account Anima's integration when setting its new targets. The Italian bank also confirmed that it has 43% Anima shareholder support for the deal at this stage. (elena.vardon@wsj.com)

0737 GMT - The domestic demand outlook for Stylam Industries' laminates may be positive, HDFC Securities analysts say in a research report as they maintain the stock's buy rating. Demand could pick up from FY 2026 due to robust real-estate sales in recent years, the analysts say. The company, with focus on India's southern market and original equipment manufacturers for growth, is confident of delivering healthy gains in the domestic market after 2-3 quarters, the analysts note. However, the brokerage cuts the company's earnings multiple to 25x estimated September 2026 EPS from 30x earlier to partly reflect higher raw material prices. It lowers the stock's target to INR2,800.00 from INR3,525.00. Shares are 2.2% higher at INR1,781.95. (ronnie.harui@wsj.com)

0737 GMT - ABN Amro's net interest income guidance for 2025 could come across as conservative given no volume growth is assumed in the replicating portfolio income, RBC Capital Markets says after the Dutch lender posted quarterly results. The bank expects net interest income in the 6.2 billion euro to 6.4 billion euro range, in line with consensus expectations. "The higher end of guidance assumes constant margins (savings rates move in tandem with replicating portfolio yield), whilst the lower end of guidance assumes no chance in client savings rates (1.5% currently)," analyst Anke Reingen and associate Matthew Russell write in a research note. Guidance for costs--flat on 2024's 5.3 billion euros--suggests upside to consensus, they add. (elena.vardon@wsj.com)

0735 GMT - BYD's move to put its advanced driving assistance technology into mass-market models will boost its sales volumes this year, Deutsche Bank analyst Bin Wang writes in a note. After becoming a world leader in EVs, the company is vying to take the lead in the intelligent driving space too, the analyst adds. Even though it hasn't raised prices for its models with autonomous driving features, BYD will still be able to maintain stable profits per unit this year, Wang says. DB lifts its 2025 volume forecast for BYD to 5.6 million units from 5.5 million units. The brokerage keeps a buy rating on the stock and increases the target price to HK$400.00 from HK$357.00. (jiahui.huang@wsj.com; @ivy\_jiahuihuang)

0733 GMT - The FTSE 100 is expected to open little changed, according to IG. The index closed nine points higher, or 0.1%, to 8777 points Tuesday. In a testimony before the Senate Banking Committee Tuesday, Federal Reserve Chair Jerome Powell said the Fed is in no hurry to cut interest rates given a strong economy and inflation above the Fed's 2% target. He is due to speak to the House Financial Services Committee at 1500 GMT. The market will also closely monitor U.S. inflation data at 1330 GMT. Another uptick in inflation would potentially "upset market expectations for the Fed to still cut this year," Deutsche Bank analysts say in a note. (renae.dyer@wsj.com)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250212003126:0/)
