---
title: "Global Energy Roundup: Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-08 04:38:00"
summary: "The latest Market Talks covering Energy markets. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.1538 ET - Oil futures fall for a third consecutive week as the market grappled with complications from postponed U.S. tariffs on oil from Canada and Mexico, Chinese retaliatory tariffs on U.S. oil and gas,..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The latest Market Talks covering Energy markets. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.

1538 ET - Oil futures fall for a third consecutive week as the market grappled with complications from postponed U.S. tariffs on oil from Canada and Mexico, Chinese retaliatory tariffs on U.S. oil and gas, OPEC+ sticking with its plan to start raising output in April and an oversized buildup in U.S. crude oil stocks. "Some of the impact this week has been more from the growth in inventories," says Kenny Zhu of Global X. "I think folks have been worried about what the tariff impact might actually be, so there's a bit of front-running of imports to try to bring in those barrels in front of the trigger date. Luckily that was pushed back." WTI settles up 0.6% at $71 a barrel Brent up 0.5% at $74.66 a barrel, and are down 2.1% and 1.3%, respectively, on the week. (anthony.harrup@wsj.com)

1352 ET [Dow Jones]--The number of rigs drilling for oil in the U.S. edged up by one this week to 480, and was down by 19 from the same time last year, oil services company Baker Hughes reports. Rigs drilling for natural gas rose by two to 100, compared with 121 a year ago. The EIA estimates that U.S. oil production will average 13.5 million barrels a day this year versus 13.2 million b/d in 2024, with growth slowing to less than 1% in 2026. While oil companies appreciate that the Trump administration is friendly to the industry with deregulation and faster permitting, "that's only going to do so much," says Kenny Zhu of Global X. "If the market fundamentals aren't there, the prices and projections for demand are not where they need to be, I think that will ultimately be the driving factor." (anthony.harrup@wsj.com)

1127 ET - Eventual U.S. tariffs on imports of Canadian and Mexican oil--of 10% and 25%, respectively--would alter North American crude flows significantly, sending some oil elsewhere and raising regional prices, Dylan White of Wood MacKenzie says in a note. The steeper tariffs on Mexico would likely move heavy Maya crude away from the U.S. to Europe and Asia. And while Canadian crude would continue to be consumed by U.S. midcontinent and Gulf Coast refiners, the Trans Mountain Pipeline would facilitate increased shipments of Canadian crude to Asia, he says. "Beyond that, we expect the higher tariff costs will get backed into wider crude differentials in Mexico and Canada."(anthony.harrup@wsj.com)

0927 ET - OPEC's ample spare crude capacity provides some comfort to the market against the impact of potential supply disruptions to Iranian oil shipments, according to Capital Economics' David Oxley. The U.S. imposed sanctions on an international network facilitating the shipment of Iranian crude to China on Thursday, just days after U.S. President Trump reinstated his "maximum pressure" campaign on Tehran. Oil benchmarks rose following the news, but are still poised for weekly losses of more than 1%. "The key point is that increased enforcement on Iran's oil shipments would be a bigger deal were it not for the fact that OPEC was sitting on about 6 million barrels a day of spare capacity, some of which they will begin to bring back to the market from April," the commodities economist says. (giulia.petroni@wsj.com)

0916 ET - Oil prices are on track for a third consecutive week of losses amid uncertainty over the impact of Trump administration policies including threatened tariffs on U.S. suppliers Canada and Mexico, and sanctions on producers such as Iran and Russia. If WTI settles below $70 a barrel, "we could be set for lower prices but there are reasons for optimism," Alex Hodes of StoneX says in a note. "Markets are still digesting the actual supply disruptions that could occur due to Iranian and Russian sanctions." WTI is up 0.6% at $71.02 a barrel, and Brent is 0.5% higher at $74.66 a barrel. (anthony.harrup@wsj.com)

0900 ET - U.S. natural gas futures hold their ground ahead of the weekend with colder temperatures expected across large parts of the U.S. in coming days. "Overnight data maintained strong national demand next week as frosty air over the Northern Plains spreads south and eastward to cover much of the interior U.S., including lows of teens and 20s into northern Texas," forecaster NatGasWeather.com says in a note. Nymex natural gas is off 0.4% at $3.392/mmBtu, on track for a double-digit weekly gain thanks to the colder February outlook. (anthony.harrup@wsj.com)

0818 ET - The 2.4% drop in Germany industrial activity in December cements the weak end to 2024 for the whole of the country's economy, according to ING's Carsten Brzeski. Industrial production remains about 10% below its prepandemic levels, as Germany's economy contracted for the second year in a row. Manufacturing capacity utilization is at lows comparable only to those seen during the financial crisis and the initial lockdowns of the pandemic, Brzeski says in a note. Even after December's strong increase, order books aren't filled enough to kick-start a much-needed turn in the inventory cycle, he says. "Add to this looming tariffs...and the outlook for German industry remains anything but rosy," he adds. (edward.frankl@wsj.com)

0808 ET - At a time when the U.S. is becoming a less amicable trading partner, Canada's Keyera and AltaGas sign a deal that opens doors to new energy end-markets for Canadian oil. Keyera, a midstream operator, and AltaGas, an energy infrastructure firm, sign a 15-year tolling contract that increases energy export capacity by 12,500 barrels of liquified petroleum gas a day. With the looming threat of US tariffs, which would include a 10% tax on Canadian energy, this deal allows for Keyera to search out new markets for its energy, offering "its customers more diversified market access for LPGs, including premium Asian markets." (adriano.marchese@wsj.com)

0733 ET - Orsted's new business plan is limited in scope and there appears to be limited headroom for execution issues, JPMorgan analysts William W. Wade and Joanna Li write. Seeking to blow past its recent poor performance, the Danish renewable-energy company updated its medium-term strategy alongside earnings. The plan doesn't feature fresh equity or new self-help measures but mainly involves capital-expenditure reductions and related cuts to Ebitda and capacity targets. The bank expects credit ratings to remain pressured and it is also concerned about political risk further affecting Orsted's U.S. business on top of any spillover effects from wider U.S.-Danish tensions. Shares trade 2.1% lower at 293.80 Danish kroner. (dominic.chopping@wsj.com)

0648 ET - Adnoc Gas has strong growth potential, its domestic margins are strengthening, and there is room for dividend growth, analysts at HSBC write. A new 10-year contract with Emirates Water and Electricity Company will boost earnings, they write. The analysts raise the stock's target price to 4.20 dirham from 4.10 dirham due to the attractive terms of the new contract. Shares trade down 1.13% at 3.50 dirham. (adam.whittaker@wsj.com)

0430 ET - European natural-gas prices are on track to post weekly gains of nearly 3% driven by uncertainties on future supplies and a looming cold snap expected to further deplete stockpiles. The benchmark Dutch TTF is up 0.5% at 54.80 euros a megawatt hour in early trade, after breaking above 55 euros in the previous session. As of Wednesday, EU gas storage was 50.6% full--a level expected to make restocking a challenge ahead of next winter. Prices are also supported by investment funds maintaining bullish positions and Europe's increased need for liquefied natural gas volumes. "The market is desperately trying to attract sufficient LNG cargos, and the current price levels indicate a premium for LNG cargos to Europe compared to Asia," DNB Markets analysts say in a note. (giulia.petroni@wsj.com)

0358 ET - Oil prices rise in early trade after the U.S. imposed sanctions on an international network facilitating the shipment of Iranian crude to China to ramp up pressure on the Middle Eastern country. Brent crude is up 0.9% at $75 a barrel, while WTI rises 0.8% to $71.18 a barrel. The sanctions target entities and individuals in China, India and the UAE, as well as several vessels, according to the Treasury Department. Still, crude prices are headed for weekly losses after days of volatile trade, with demand concerns in focus amid a bigger-than-expected rise in U.S. crude stockpiles, U.S. President Trump's tariffs on China and push for increased domestic production. (giulia.petroni@wsj.com)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250207009818:0/)
