---
title: "Cleveland Fed's Hammack: Appropriate to Hold Rates Steady for 'Some Time'"
date: "2025-02-11 22:04:00"
summary: "By Matt GrossmanCleveland Fed President Beth Hammack said that 2% inflation is \"not in sight just yet,\" and that amid higher policy uncertainty, \"it will likely be appropriate to hold the funds rate steady for some time.\"Speaking Tuesday at the University of Kentucky in Lexington, Ky. in a speech she..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Matt Grossman

Cleveland Fed President Beth Hammack said that 2% inflation is "not in sight just yet," and that amid higher policy uncertainty, "it will likely be appropriate to hold the funds rate steady for some time."

Speaking Tuesday at the University of Kentucky in Lexington, Ky. in a speech she called Show Me The Low Inflation, Hammack emphasized that the pace of price increases is "still not all the way back to where we want it to be," according to a published text of her remarks.

The Fed's preferred inflation metric stubbornly increased again to 2.6% over the 12 months through December. Persistent inflation led the Fed to interrupt a series of three recent rate cuts by holding interest rates constant at a range of 4.25% to 4.5% at the most recent meeting in January.

The first look at January inflation arrives on Wednesday, when the Labor Department is set to publish consumer-price-index data.

Uncertainty about the policy backdrop is giving the Fed cause for patience, Hammack said. She said that when it comes to threats of higher tariffs, "the risks to the inflation outlook appear skewed to the upside, and this could delay a return to 2 percent and further risk embedding elevated inflation into the economy."

Another open question to Hammack: how much the Fed's interest-rate target is still doing to further slow the economy after a percentage point of rate cuts in late 2024. She said that solid economic growth, low unemployment and elevated inflation suggest to her that the Fed's stance is "only modestly restrictive."

Hammack, a former finance executive at Goldman Sachs who began leading the Cleveland Fed last year, cited high stock valuations and other market-based metrics to suggest that "we may be at or close to a neutral setting already," that is, a policy stance that is neither boosting nor restraining the economy.

Traders in futures markets perceive a 94% probability that the Fed will continue to hold rates steady at its next meeting in March, and a 50% probability that rates won't move lower before July.

Hammack does not vote on monetary policy this year, under a system that rotates four of the Fed's voting seats among the presidents of the system's regional reserve banks.

Investors are anticipating more updates on the monetary-policy outlook later Tuesday morning, when Fed Chair Jerome Powell testifies before the Senate Banking Committee.

Write to Matt Grossman at matt.grossman@wsj.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250211005857:0-cleveland-fed-s-hammack-appropriate-to-hold-rates-steady-for-some-time/)
