---
title: "Delta Galil Reports Strong Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2024 Results"
date: "2025-02-12 06:05:00"
summary: "Delta Galil Reports Strong Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2024 ResultsRecord Fourth Quarter Sales Increased 18% Driven by Growth Across All Segments and ChannelsRecord Fourth Quarter Gross Profit Expanded 14% to $250.1 MillionFourth Quarter EBIT Before Non-Core Items Increased 15% to $64.7 MillionFourth Quarter Net Profit Before Non-Core Items Increased..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Delta Galil Reports Strong Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2024 Results

Record Fourth Quarter Sales Increased 18% Driven by Growth Across All Segments and Channels

Record Fourth Quarter Gross Profit Expanded 14% to $250.1 Million

Fourth Quarter EBIT Before Non-Core Items Increased 15% to $64.7 Million

Fourth Quarter Net Profit Before Non-Core Items Increased 8% to $41.0 Million

Strong Balance Sheet with Record Equity of $803.6 Million and

Net Debt to EBITDA, Excluding IFRS 16, of 0.6x

Record Dividend for the Full Year of $33 Million

Dividend declared of $10 Million for the Fourth Quarter 2024

CAESAREA, Israel--(BUSINESS WIRE)--February 11, 2025--

Delta Galil Industries, Ltd. (DELG/Tel Aviv Stock Exchange), the global designer, manufacturer and marketer of branded and private label intimate, activewear, loungewear and denim apparel for ladies, men, and children, today reported financial results for the fourth quarter and year ended December 31, 2024.

* Fourth quarter sales increased 18% to $599.2 million, driven by growth in all segments, channels and geographics
* Full year sales increased 10% to a record $2,045.7 million
* Fourth quarter and full year online sales of the Company's brands increased 22% and 21%, respectively
* Full year gross margin improved 100 basis points for an annual record of 41.9%
* Fourth quarter EBIT before non-core items increased 15% and reached $64.7 million, compared to $56.2 million, for the fourth quarter last year
* Full year EBIT before non-core items was $184.1 million, or 9.0% of sales compared to $153.0 million, or 8.2% of sales, last year
* Net Debt to EBITDA, excluding IFRS 16, was 0.6x for the year ended December 31, 2024, compared to 0.7x last year
* Strong Balance sheet with $121.8 million in cash and record shareholders' equity of $803.6 million at December 31, 2024
* Declares a $10 million dividend for the fourth quarter 2024, compared to $9 million for the fourth quarter last year

Isaac Dabah, CEO of Delta Galil, stated, "Delta's strong fourth quarter financial results produced a record year of sales and robust profitability, reflecting our team's resilience, creativity, and dedication inachieving excellent results. For the full year, I am proud to report that we exceeded our 2024 sales and EBITDA guidance, as we grew sales by 10% to over $2.0 billion, produced a record gross margin of 41.9% and expanded net income by 18% to $109 million. This performance generated strong operating cash flow excluding IFRS 16 of $153 million for the full year 2024. Strong profitability and operating cash flow also allowed us to return a record $33 million of dividends back to our shareholders, a 24% increase over the prior year."

Mr. Dabah added, "We expect continued growth in sales and profitability in 2025. Our positive outlook demonstrates the success of the multi-year growth strategies we are pursuing with our strategic partners, as well with our brands, the investments we have made to enhance profitability and drive efficiencies in our factories, and the actions we have taken to improve our balance sheet. Looking ahead, our near-term priorities include increasing sales and profitability with our global licenses and new brands, implementing further realignment plans to improve the efficiency and profitability of our factories, and developing new categories with our main customers. We believe this positive momentum will support our business in 2025, as we look to increase sales, expand margins, and enhance our position as a leader in the global intimates and activewear market."

Sales

The Company reported record fourth quarter 2024 sales of $599.2 million, an 18% increase from $508.6 million in the fourth quarter of 2023.

Sales for the 2024 full year were $2,045.7 million, a 10% increase from $1,857.7 million in the prior-year period.

Gross Margin

Gross profit in the fourth quarter amounted to $250.1 million compared to $219.1 million in Q4 2023.

Gross profit in 2024 amounted to $856.3 million compared to $760.6 million in 2023.

Gross margin in the fourth quarter of 2024 was 41.7% compared to 43.1% for the same period last year. The year-over-year reduction in the fourth quarter gross margin was due primarily to higher freight costs, lower tax rebates in our Egyptian operations and segment mix.

Gross margin for the 2024 full year increased by 100-basis points to a record 41.9%, compared to 40.9% in the prior-year period. The year-over-year gross margin increase was due primarily to higher volume production in the Company's factories due to an increase in Private Label segment sales, and an increase in more profitable DTC sales, partially offset by higher freight costs.

EBIT

EBIT before non-core items in the fourth quarter of 2024 was $64.7 million, or 10.8% of sales, compared to $56.2 million, or 11.0% of sales, in the same period last year.

EBIT in the fourth quarter of 2024 was $53.1 million, compared to $56.2 million, in the fourth quarter last year.

EBIT before non-core items in the full year 2024 was $184.1 million, or 9.0% of sales, compared to $153.0 million, or 8.2% of sales, in the full year 2023.

EBIT in the full year 2024 was $169.2 million, compared to $144.9 million in 2023.

The year-over-year increase in annual EBIT was due to higher sales and improved gross margin.

Non-Core Items

For the fourth quarter of 2024, the Company recorded non-core expenses associated with realignment plans of $6.2 million and expenses related to impairment of non-financial assets of $5.3 million. The Company recorded no non-core items in the fourth quarter of 2023.

In 2024, expenses associated with realignment plans were $9.6 million and expenses related to impairment of non-financial assets were $5.3 million, compared to $11.4 million of expenses related to realignment plans, a $4.0 benefit from the change in the fair value of an earn-out liability, and $0.7 million of deal costs in 2023.

Net Income

Net income excluding non-core items, net of tax in the fourth quarter of 2024, increased 8% to $41.0 million, compared to $37.8 million in the fourth quarter of 2023.

Net income in the fourth quarter of 2024 was $29.5 million, compared to $37.8 million in the same period last year.

Net income excluding non-core items, net of tax, in the full year 2024 increased 18% to $108.5 million, compared to $91.6 million in 2023.

Net income in the full year 2024 increased 11% to $94.6 million, compared to $85.3 million in 2023.

Diluted Earnings Per Share

Diluted earnings per share, excluding non-core items, net of tax, increased 9% to $1.43 in the fourth quarter of 2024 compared to $1.31 in the fourth quarter of 2023.

Diluted earnings per share in the fourth quarter of 2024 were $1.00, compared to $1.31 in the fourth quarter last year.

Diluted earnings per share, excluding non-core items, net of tax, increased 18% to $3.82 in the full year 2024 compared to $3.25 in the same period of 2023.

Diluted earnings per share in full year 2024 were $3.29 compared to $3.02 in 2023.

EBITDA, Cash Flow, Net Debt, Equity, and Dividend

EBITDA, excluding IFRS 16, in the fourth quarter of 2024 increased 15% to $72.4 million, compared to $62.9 million in the fourth quarter of 2023. In the full year 2024, EBITDA, excluding IFRS 16, increased 19% to $217.1 million, compared to $182.6 million in the full year 2023.

Cash flow generated from operating activities, excluding IFRS 16, was $64.3 million, compared to $82.3 million in the fourth quarter of 2023. Cash flow generated from operating activities, excluding IFRS 16, was $153.1 million in the full year 2024, compared to $181.9 million in the full year 2023. The year-over-year reduction in full-year operating cash flow was primarily attributable to changes in working capital, mainly inventory, to support expected sales growth and new product launches, compared to a deliberate decrease in inventory last year, which resulted from a slowdown in the acquisition of new inventory and the sale of inventory from previous seasons.

Net financial debt, excluding IFRS 16, at December 31, 2024, remained at a similar level at $126.5 million, compared to $123.4 million at December 31, 2023.

Equity on December 31, 2024, was a record of $803.6 million, up 5% from $768.4 million on December 31, 2023.

Delta Galil declared a dividend of $10 million, or $0.384 per share, which will be distributed on February 26, 2025, with a record and "ex-dividend" date of February 19, 2025.

2025 Financial Guidance

```
   
                                          Full Year 2025   
                   2024 Results (in        Guidance (in   
                   millions, except    millions, except per   Increase in   
                   per share amount)      share amount)       2025 vs 2024   
                  -------------------  --------------------  -------------   
   
Sales                  $2,045.7          $2,118 -- 2,165         4%-6%   
EBIT                    $184.1             $192 -- 200           4%-9%   
EBITDA                  $279.9             $293 -- 301           5%-8%   
Net income              $108.5             $112 -- 118           4%-9%   
Diluted EPS ($)          $3.82            $3.92 -- 4.15          3%-9%   
 
```

The Company's guidance excludes non-core items, includes IFRS 16, and is based on 1.05 US $ per 1 Euro and 3.60 NIS per 1 US $.

These forward-looking statements are based largely on the expectations of the Company and are subject to uncertainties including macroeconomic trends. Actual results may differ materially from those included in the guidance as a result of risks and uncertainties which cannot be fully predicted. There is no certainty that the aforementioned conditions will occur, and actual results may be significantly different from those forecasted or implied above.

Constant Currency - Excluding the Impact of Foreign Currency

This release refers to "reported" amounts in accordance with IFRS accounting principles ("GAAP"), which include translation and transactional impacts from foreign currency exchange rates. The release also refers to "constant dollar" amounts, which exclude the impact of translating foreign currencies into U.S. dollars, and are considered a non-GAAP financial measure. These constant currency performance measures should be viewed in addition to, and not in lieu of, or superior to, Delta Galil's operating performance measures calculated in accordance with GAAP.

About Delta Galil Industries

Delta Galil Industries is a global designer, manufacturer and marketer of branded and private label apparel products for men, women and children. Since its inception in 1975, the Company has continually endeavored to create products that follow a body-before-fabric philosophy, placing equal emphasis on comfort, aesthetics and quality. Delta Galil develops innovative seamless apparel including bras, shapewear and socks; intimate apparel for women; underwear for men including under its owned brands Schiesser, Eminence, Organic Basics, and Athena; babywear, activewear, sleepwear, and loungewear including under its owned P.J. Salvage and Delta brands. Delta Galil also designs, develops markets and sells branded denim and apparel under the brand 7 For All Mankind(R), and ladies' and kids' apparel under the brand Splendid(R). In addition, it sells its products under brand names licensed to the company, including adidas, Wolford, Wilson, Columbia, Tommy Hilfiger, Polo Ralph Lauren and others. For more information, visit www.deltagalil.com.

Safe Harbor Statement

Matters discussed in this press release contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. When used in this press release, the words "anticipate," "believe," "estimate," "may" "intend," "expect" and similar expressions identify such forward-looking statements. Actual results, performance or achievements could differ materially from those contemplated, expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements contained herein, and while expected, there is no guarantee that we will attain the aforementioned anticipated developmental milestones. These forward-looking statements are based largely on the expectations of the Company and are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties. These include, but are not limited to, risks and uncertainties associated with: the impact of economic, tax rates in the various countries the company operates in, competitive and other factors affecting the Company and its operations, markets, product, and distributor performance, the impact on the national and local economies resulting from terrorist actions, and U.S. actions subsequently; and other factors detailed in reports filed by the Company.

```
   
   
                     DELTA GALIL INDUSTRIES LTD.   
                 Concise Consolidated Balance Sheets   
                        As of December 31, 2024   
   
                              December 31   
 ---------------------------------------------------------------------   
                                                 2024        2023   
                                              ----------  ----------   
                                                     (Audited)   
                                             -------------------------   
                                               Thousands of Dollars   
                                             -------------------------   
   
   
                  Assets   
Current assets:   
   Cash and cash equivalents                     120,509     174,463   
   Restricted Cash                                 1,305       2,950   
   Trade receivables                             271,873     241,216   
   Taxes on income receivable                      1,927          77   
   Others                                         56,998      48,920   
   Financial derivative                              160         228   
   Inventory                                     400,533     361,416   
   Asset held for sale                             1,773       1,773   
                                              ----------  ----------   
Total current assets                             855,078     831,043   
                                              ----------  ----------   
   
Non-current assets:   
   Investments in associated companies   
    accounted using the equity method and   
    long-term receivables                         12,824      14,897   
   Investment property                             2,401       2,679   
   Fixed assets, net of accumulated   
    depreciation                                 288,346     250,343   
   Goodwill                                      138,033     145,577   
   Intangible assets, net of accumulated   
    amortization                                 294,899     277,952   
   Assets in respect of usage rights             257,629     237,177   
   Deferred tax assets                            30,537      28,016   
   Financial derivative                              511         903   
                                              ----------  ----------   
Total non-current assets                       1,025,180     957,544   
                                              ----------  ----------   
Total assets                                   1,880,258   1,788,587   
                                              ==========  ==========   
   
   
   
                     DELTA GALIL INDUSTRIES LTD.   
                 Concise Consolidated Balance Sheets   
                        As of December 31, 2024   
   
                                                    December 31   
                                             -------------------------   
                                                2024        2023   
                                              ---------   ---------   
                                                     (Audited)   
                                             -------------------------   
                                               Thousands of Dollars   
                                             -------------------------   
   
          Liabilities and Equity   
Current liabilities:   
   Short-term bank loans                          2,335         822   
   Current maturities of bank loans              20,939      24,105   
   Current maturities of bonds                   29,476      29,597   
   Financial derivative                           1,314       1,380   
   Current maturities of leases liabilities      53,663      52,583   
   Trade payables                               237,371     168,637   
   Taxes on income payable                       23,805      35,182   
   Provision for realignment plan                 8,142       3,574   
   Others accounts payable                      194,900     165,791   
                                              ---------   ---------   
Total current liabilities                       571,945     481,671   
                                              ---------   ---------   
   
Non-current liabilities:   
   Bank loans                                   124,163     140,790   
   Severance pay liabilities, net                 5,810       5,327   
   Liabilities in respect of leases             225,802     204,746   
   Other non-current liabilities                 49,105      53,241   
   Bonds                                         64,712      96,496   
   Deferred taxes liabilities                    33,394      35,812   
   Financial derivative                           1,765       2,122   
                                              ---------   ---------   
   Total non-current liabilities                504,751     538,534   
                                              ---------   ---------   
Total liabilities                             1,076,696   1,020,205   
                                              ---------   ---------   
   
Equity:   
Equity attributable to equity holders of   
the parent company:   
      Share capital                              23,714      23,714   
      Share premium                             124,025     127,861   
      Other capital reserves                     15,590      28,133   
      Retained earning                          625,912     571,846   
      Treasury shares                            (9,832)    (13,668)   
                                              ---------   ---------   
                                                779,409     737,886   
      Minority interests                         24,153      30,496   
                                              ---------   ---------   
Total equity                                    803,562     768,382   
                                              ---------   ---------   
Total liabilities and equity                  1,880,258   1,788,587   
                                              =========   =========   
   
   
   
                                      DELTA GALIL INDUSTRIES LTD.   
                            Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income   
                     For the year and three month periods ending December 31, 2024   
   
                                                                 Three months   
                  Year ended December                           ended December   
                           31           % Increase/(Decrease)         31          % Increase/(Decrease)   
                  --------------------  ---------------------  -----------------  ---------------------   
                    2024       2023                             2024      2023   
                  ---------  ---------  ---------------------  -------  --------  ---------------------   
                                                  Thousands of Dollars   
                  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------   
                                          (Excluding earning per share figures)   
                  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------   
Sales             2,045,666  1,857,682           10%           599,227   508,603           18%   
Cost of sales     1,189,374  1,097,084                         349,099   289,468   
                  ---------  ---------                         -------  --------   
Gross profit        856,292    760,598           13%           250,128   219,135           14%   
% of sales            41.9%      40.9%                           41.7%     43.1%   
Selling and   
 marketing   
 expenses           568,151    522,214           9%            156,674   141,364           11%   
% of sales            27.8%      28.1%                           26.1%     27.8%   
General and   
 administrative   
 expenses           105,222     93,334           13%            29,593    25,048           18%   
% of sales             5.1%       5.0%                            4.9%      4.9%   
Other income,   
 net and share   
 in profit of   
 associated   
 company            (1,167)    (7,970)                           (812)   (3,433)   
                  ---------  ---------                         -------  --------   
Operating income   
 excluding   
 non-core items     184,086    153,020           20%            64,673    56,156           15%   
% of sales             9.0%       8.2%                           10.8%     11.0%   
Non-core items       14,922      8,087                          11,562         -   
                  ---------  ---------                         -------  --------   
Operating income    169,164    144,933           17%            53,111    56,156          (5%)   
Finance   
 expenses, net       44,779     37,932           18%            13,244     8,635           53%   
                  ---------  ---------                         -------  --------   
Income before   
 taxes on   
 income             124,385    107,001                          39,867    47,521   
Taxes on income      29,747     21,660                          10,344     9,741   
                  ---------  ---------                         -------  --------   
Net income           94,638     85,341           11%            29,523    37,780          (22%)   
                  =========  =========                         =======  ========   
Net income   
 excluding   
 non-core items,   
 net of tax         108,509     91,600           18%            40,957    37,780           8%   
                  =========  =========                         =======  ========   
   
Net income   
 attributed to   
 the company's   
 shareholders   
 excluding   
 non-core items,   
 net of tax         100,281     85,407                          37,693    34,366   
                  =========  =========                         =======  ========   
   
Attribution of   
net earnings:   
Attributed to   
 company's   
 shareholders        86,410     79,210                          26,259    34,366   
Attributed to   
 non-controlling   
 interests            8,228      6,131                           3,264     3,414   
                  ---------  ---------                         -------  --------   
                     94,638     85,341                          29,523    37,780   
                  =========  =========                         =======  ========   
Net diluted   
 earnings per   
 share   
 attributed to   
 company's   
 shareholders          3.29       3.02                            1.00      1.31   
                  =========  =========                         =======  ========   
Net diluted   
 earnings per   
 share, before   
 non-core items,   
 net of tax,   
 attributable to   
 Company's   
 shareholders          3.82       3.25           18%              1.43      1.31           9%   
                  =========  =========                         =======  ========   
   
   
   
                      DELTA GALIL INDUSTRIES LTD.   
                     Consolidated Cash Flow Reports   
   
                                              Year ended December 31   
                                           -----------------------------   
                                               2024           2023   
                                            ----------      ---------   
                                                     (Audited)   
                                           -----------------------------   
                                               Thousands of Dollars   
                                           -----------------------------   
   
Cash flows from operating activities:   
   Net income                                   94,638         85,341   
   Adjustments required to reflect cash   
    flows generated from operating   
    activities                                 182,506        185,301   
   Interest paid in cash                       (31,222)       (31,184)   
   Interest received in cash                     3,511          4,014   
   Taxes on income refund (paid) in cash,   
    net                                        (46,410)       (12,658)   
                                            ----------      ---------   
Net cash generated from operating   
 activities                                    203,023        230,814   
                                            ----------      ---------   
   
Cash flows from investment activities:   
   Change in short-term deposit, net                 -         60,422   
   Purchase of fixed assets and assets   
    under construction                         (73,994)       (45,363)   
   Purchase of intangible assets               (32,807)        (7,624)   
   Repayment (providing) of a loan from   
    (to) a business partner                        981         (1,089)   
   Proceeds from selling of fixed asset            600          1,121   
   Others                                        1,207          1,083   
                                            ----------      ---------   
Net cash generated from (used in)   
 Investing activities                         (104,013)         8,550   
                                            ----------      ---------   
   
Cash flows from financing activities:   
   Dividends paid to non-controlling   
    interest holders in consolidated   
    subsidiary                                 (14,488)        (2,362)   
   Long term payables credit for fixed   
    assets purchase                             (5,051)        (6,684)   
   Lease principle repayment                   (49,932)       (48,891)   
   Repayment of bonds                          (31,202)       (46,255)   
   Dividend paid                               (32,972)       (26,510)   
   Receipt of a long-term loans from   
    banking corporations                         6,616         32,694   
   Repayment of long-term loans from   
    banking corporations                       (24,146)       (44,457)   
   Short-term credit from banking   
    corporations, net                            1,929        (50,663)   
   Others                                          394         (1,383)   
                                            ----------      ---------   
Net cash used in financing activities         (148,852)      (194,511)   
                                            ----------      ---------   
Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash   
 equivalents                                   (49,842)        44,853   
                                            ----------      ---------   
   
Exchange rate differences and revaluation   
 of cash and cash equivalents, net              (4,112)         2,961   
   
Balance of cash and cash equivalents at   
 the beginning of the period, net              174,463        126,649   
                                            ----------      ---------   
Balance of cash and cash equivalents at   
 the end of the Period, net                    120,509        174,463   
                                            ==========      =========   
   
   
   
                      DELTA GALIL INDUSTRIES LTD.   
                     Consolidated Cash Flow Reports   
   
                                              Year ended December 31   
                                           -----------------------------   
                                               2024           2023   
                                            ----------      ---------   
                                                     (Audited)   
                                           -----------------------------   
                                               Thousands of Dollars   
                                           -----------------------------   
   
Adjustments required to reflect cash   
flows from operating activities:   
Revenues and expenses not involving cash   
flow:   
   Depreciation                                 33,024         34,033   
   Amortization                                 65,731         61,961   
   Impairment of non-financial assets            5,344   
   Exchange rate (gains) losses                    415           (124)   
   Interest on loans and bonds                  19,351         21,933   
   Interest received in cash                    (3,511)        (4,014)   
   Taxes on income paid in cash, net            46,410         12,658   
   Deferred taxes on income, net                (2,738)        (7,089)   
   Interest due to lease agreements             11,871          9,251   
   Severance pay liability, net                   (557)        (1,599)   
   Change in realignment accrual                 4,568            941   
   Income from decrease of earn-out   
    liability                                        -         (4,000)   
   Capital gain                                   (512)        (1,482)   
   Change to the benefit component of   
    options granted to employees                 2,188          2,128   
   Share in profits of associated company   
    accounted for using the equity method         (342)          (846)   
   Others                                          314          2,463   
                                            ----------      ---------   
                                               181,556        126,214   
 -----------------------------------------  ----------      ---------   
Changes to operating assets and   
liabilities:   
   Increase in trade receivables               (37,762)        (3,868)   
   Increase in other receivable and   
    balances                                    (7,822)        (5,083)   
   Increase (decrease) in trade payables        76,460        (46,251)   
   Increase (decrease) in other payables        18,294        (15,274)   
   Decrease (Increase) in inventory            (48,220)       129,563   
                                            ----------      ---------   
                                                   950         59,087   
 -----------------------------------------  ----------      ---------   
                                               182,506        185,301   
 =========================================  ==========      =========   
 
```

View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20250211948418/en/

CONTACT: For more information:

Nissim Douek

+972-54-5201178

Nissim@unik.co.il

U.S. Media Contact:

Stacy Berns

Berns Communications Group

+1-212-994-4660

sberns@bcg-pr.com

**(22:05 GMT)** \*Delta Galil Industries 4Q Sales $599.2M >DELG.TV

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250211012026:0/)
