---
title: "Financials Down After Inflation Data Stirs Volatility — Financials Roundup"
date: "2025-02-13 06:45:00"
summary: "Shares of banks and other financial institutions fell after consumer-inflation data spurred volatility in stock and bond markets.Treasury yields had their biggest one-day increase of the year so far after the annual rate of inflation ticked up to 3% in January.Trump administration officials are discussing plans to curtail and combine..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Shares of banks and other financial institutions fell after consumer-inflation data spurred volatility in stock and bond markets.

Treasury yields had their biggest one-day increase of the year so far after the annual rate of inflation ticked up to 3% in January.

Trump administration officials are discussing plans to curtail and combine the power of banking regulators, with one proposal envisioning folding the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. into the Treasury department. In a draft letter, Sen. Elizabeth Warren (D., Mass.) and Rep. Maxine Waters (D., Calif.) said they considered recent access by Elon Musk's Department of Government Efficiency into the internal systems of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau and the Treasury Department to be in violation of the Constitution and other laws.

Managers at JPMorgan Chase started to notify employees of job cuts last week, The Wall Street Journal reported.

The Big Board is expanding in Texas, planning to launch an electronic exchange there in an apparent response to the upstart Texas Stock Exchange, which has vowed to lure listings to the Lone Star State with a "business friendly" approach.

Shares of stock and cryptocurrency-trading app Robinhood soared after posting earnings ahead of expectations after the market close.

Write to Rob Curran at rob.curran@dowjones.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250212015966:0/)
