---
title: "Trump Layoffs Push Federal Workers Into Tough Job Hunt — WSJ"
date: "2025-02-13 18:30:00"
summary: "By Te-Ping ChenThe Trump administration's effort to slash the federal workforce is pushing employees into a challenging job market.Federal workers skew older than those in the private sector, and their long bureaucratic experience often makes them less competitive applicants for corporate roles, according to career coaches and recruiters.Hiring for white-collar..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Te-Ping Chen

The Trump administration's effort to slash the federal workforce is pushing employees into a challenging job market.

Federal workers skew older than those in the private sector, and their long bureaucratic experience often makes them less competitive applicants for corporate roles, according to career coaches and recruiters.

Hiring for white-collar jobs, meanwhile, has slowed in recent years as companies retrench after hiring sprees. Local governments have lots of jobs to fill, but federal workers' experience is often a poor match for the kind of positions that need to be filled, which frequently take place outside office settings.

Kenneth Corn, who stepped down in January as the Agriculture Department's Oklahoma state director for rural development, said about 200 recent job applications have yielded just two interviews.

"I get rejection letters for almost everything," said Corn, 48 years old.

The political appointee, who also spent four terms as a Democratic lawmaker in the state legislature, has been applying for executive-director and government-affairs roles, among others.

To date, some 65,000 of roughly 2.3 million federal workers have accepted the Trump administration's buyout offer. With the White House moving swiftly to dismantle various federal agencies, many more workers are bracing for possible layoffs and further turmoil.

Multiple federal employees — including those working in areas such as border security who aren't eligible for the buyout — told The Wall Street Journal that job uncertainty has made them wonder whether they would be better off elsewhere.

Instability is a jarring change for many in the federal government, which has been a bastion of long-term employment. Getting such roles can be a lengthy bureaucratic process, and those who land such jobs tend to stay. The median tenure of a federal worker is 6.5 years, according to federal data, compared with a median 3.9 years in the private sector.

Long government resumes can make it harder for workers to stand out, said Tristan Layfield, a career coach based in Detroit. Such workers often lack experience that companies seek, such as a track record of exceeding sales or other performance targets, he said.

In the government, "these are jobs that aren't always tied to tangible results," Layfield said.

He said he has fielded inquiries from about 60 federal employees around the U.S. during the past two weeks, an unusually high number.

Federal workers are more likely than the American public to have college and graduate degrees, and most have white-collar roles. But hiring for such professional positions, which can range from project management to information technology to accounting, has slumped in recent years, hitting college graduates especially hard.

A few years ago, as companies sought to fill pandemic-induced labor shortages, displaced federal workers would have readily nabbed jobs, often with pay raises, said Julia Pollak, chief economist at jobs website ZipRecruiter.

In recent months, companies have trimmed ranks and reduced white-collar hiring, hitting fields such as professional and business services. Government data show 4.9% of such workers are now unemployed, up from 4.3% a year earlier.

"It's a very cautious, conservative labor market," Pollak said, adding that federal workers can also face a heightened risk of age discrimination. About 28% are 55 years or older, compared with 24% of the overall workforce, according to Pew Research Center.

Federal employees in places where businesses are expanding, such as Texas, are likely to have more opportunities. "An older IT worker in D.C. is going to have a tough time," Pollak said.

Still, federal workers can offer policy knowledge and an understanding of how the government works, said Bridgett Frey, a political appointee who stepped down in January as assistant administrator for communications at the Federal Aviation Administration. She has since started her own consulting company.

"Learning how to navigate a huge bureaucracy and get things done is a huge skill set," she said.

The jobs site GovernmentJobs.com currently lists about 50,000 state and local job openings. Neogov, the California-based company that runs the website, recently posted billboard advertisements in 11 states, as well as the Washington, D.C., area, urging federal workers in at-risk jobs to apply.

The vast majority of government jobs are at the state and local level, and most of the federal workforce is spread around the country. "The federal government is firing, but state and local are hiring," said Shane Evangelist, Neogov's chief executive.

But many of those state and local jobs most in need of workers aren't great matches for federal civil servants, said Gerald Young, senior researcher at MissionSquare Research Institute, which studies state- and local-government workforces. Open positions include building inspectors and corrections officers.

Andrew Mills, the police chief in Palm Springs, Calif., posted on social media this month encouraging Federal Bureau of Investigation agents worried about their jobs to apply for positions in his department. Senior officers who work overtime can earn as much as $200,000 a year, and the job can offer long-term job security, Mills said.

"No city council I've ever worked near is going to lay off a blue uniform," he said.

Write to Te-Ping Chen at Te-ping.Chen@wsj.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250213005154:0/)
