---
title: "Global Forex and Fixed Income Roundup: Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-11 22:20:00"
summary: "The latest Market Talks covering FX and Fixed Income. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.0920 ET - Business groups in Canada point to conflicting data on the back of Ottawa's two-month sales tax holiday, which comes to an end mid-month. The not-for-profit Restaurants Canada estimates employment in..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The latest Market Talks covering FX and Fixed Income. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.

0920 ET - Business groups in Canada point to conflicting data on the back of Ottawa's two-month sales tax holiday, which comes to an end mid-month. The not-for-profit Restaurants Canada estimates employment in the foodservice sector rose in January to the highest level since the start of the pandemic. The industry added 34,600 new jobs since November, reaching 1.18 million jobs and representing one in six new jobs created in Canada as the tax break offered support to households during an ongoing affordability crisis, Restaurants Canada CEO Kelly Higginson says. Still, the Canadian Federation of Independent Business says only 5% of small businesses saw stronger sales compared with the same period last year. Of that it says 4% of businesses in retail and 15% in hospitality saw sales rise. (robb.stewart@wsj.com; @RobbMStewart)

0917 ET - The Swedish krona and Norwegian krone could extend recent gains on growing optimism about a potential ceasefire deal for the Russia-Ukraine conflict, ING analyst Chris Turner says in a note. "Expectations are that the U.S. will reveal more of its plans at a Munich security conference this weekend, although any breakthrough with Russia would be a major surprise and is not priced in FX markets," he says. In the near-term, EUR/SEK could fall to 11.15 and EUR/NOK could fall below 11.50, with the NOK also supported by a rise in energy prices. EUR/SEK falls 0.2% to a four-and-a-half-month low of 11.2388, according to FactSet. EUR/NOK rises 0.2% to 11.5827 after reaching a two-and-a-half-month low of 11.5337 on Monday. (renae.dyer@wsj.com)

0904 ET - U.S. high-yield default rates rose in January, particularly in the media, healthcare and telecommunications sectors, CreditSights analysts say in a note. The issuer-weighted default rate climbed 11 basis points in January, leaving the percentage of U.S. high-yield issuers that have defaulted over the past 12 months at 3.2% the analysts say. The debt-weighted default rate rose 8 basis points to 2.6%. The U.S. media sector had the highest issuer-weighted default rate in January at 10%, healthcare sector was second at 7%, with telecommunications in third place at 6.5%, the analysts say. (miriam.mukuru@wsj.com)

0850 ET - Treasury yields rise ahead of Powell's semiannual Senate testimony and as Trump's tariffs on steel and aluminum, both to take effect next month, add momentum to a global trade war. Powell is expected to face questions about how tariffs and other policies could drive Fed moves. The E.U. promises to retaliate against U.S. tariffs. January CPI is due tomorrow and expected to remain above target. The 10-year yield is at 4.533%, on path for a fourth consecutive daily gain, and the two-year is at 4.290%. (paulo.trevisani@wsj.com; @ptrevisani)

0848 ET - The associated uncertainty of U.S. trade policy under President Trump will have real-world consequences, and nowhere more true than at the Federal Reserve, Capital Economics chief economist Neil Shearing says. The Fed could be facing either a once-in-a-century tariff price shock, or a lot of sound and fury that ultimately signify something far less, he says in a note. Still, the uncertainty is likely enough to keep Fed officials on the sidelines over the coming months. If high tariffs are ultimately imposed then the subsequent rise in inflation will prevent further easing over the remainder of 2025, he says. "Much will depend on the whim of one man." (edward.frankl@wsj.com)

0831 ET - The cost of insuring euro credit against default using credit default swaps is little changed as investors trade cautiously ahead of the U.S. Federal Reserve Chair Jerome Powell's presentation before the U.S. Senate at 1500 GMT. "It will be interesting to hear how Powell frames the fact that the Fed is in a tricky position, since the impact of the new President's policies is as yet unknown, which makes policy paralysis more likely in the coming months," XTB's Kathleen Brooks says in a note. The iTraxx Europe Main index which tracks euro investment-grade bonds credit default swaps is unchanged at 53 basis points, S&P Global Market Intelligence data show. (miriam.mukuru@wsj.com)

0822 ET - U.S. president Trump's 25% tariffs on steel and aluminum imports "will harm EU producers and strain transatlantic ties," Vladimir Dlouhy, president of industry group Eurochambres, says. "We should be building, not breaking, economic bridges," he says in a statement. Eurochambres represents businesses in the bloc through a network of national European chambers of commerce. (edith.hancock@wsj.com)

0818 ET - The dollar has limited scope to fall, even if U.S. inflation data Wednesday come in lower than expected, Rabobank forex strategist Jane Foley says in a note. A softer-than-expected reading would boost bets on further Federal Reserve interest-rate cuts, she says. While the dollar could soften initially, further Fed easing is already in the price. This suggests any move should be limited. "Indeed, given that the news on tariffs has been coming thick and fast since [President Trump's] inauguration on January 20, we would not expect the [dollar] to give up much ground." Rabobank expects the Fed to cut rates once more but Trump's "inflationary policies" suggest the window of opportunity for further cuts could close rapidly. (renae.dyer@wsj.com)

0751 ET - American companies in Europe are worried about the European Commission's plan to retaliate to U.S. President Trump's 25% tariffs on foreign steel and aluminium imports, the American Chamber of Commerce to the EU says. "We call on both sides to urgently seek a negotiated solution and avoid a negative spiral of tariffs that would only hurt both economies," it says in a Tuesday statement after Trump announced his decision to impose tariffs on Monday. "U.S. tariffs on EU imports of steel and aluminium will have a wide-reaching and overwhelmingly negative impact on jobs, prosperity and security on both sides of the Atlantic," says the group, which advocates for U.S. businesses in the bloc, adding that the EU is the U.S.'s "most important economic partner" and should be exempt from the tariff regime. (edith.hancock@wsj.com)

0704 ET - Main Street is already beginning to lose its postelection buzz, Pantheon Macroeconomics' Oliver Allen writes in a note to clients. Optimism fell last month among America's small-business owners, according to a survey set out Tuesday, with growing uncertainty casting a shadow over the surge in good feeling that followed Donald Trump's victory in November's elections. "The fading optimism probably at least partly reflects worries about disruption caused by trade policy and perhaps some other aspects of Mr. Trump's platform, such as sharp cuts to immigration," Allen says. (joshua.kirby@wsj.com; @joshualeokirby)

0611 ET - The 10-year U.S. Treasury yield is expected to center around 4.5% in the future, based on historical evidence, Robert Conzo, CEO and managing director at The Wealth Alliance, says. "We believe the 10-year Treasury yield will be range-bound around 4.5% for the future, given that throughout history, rates tend to stabilize after periods of volatility," he says. The history of the past 60 years shows that a 10-year Treasury yield of 4.5% is on the low side, he says. "It appears that the perception of what a normal yield should be was skewed due to the historically low-rate environment after the Great Financial Crisis of 2008," Conzo says. The 10-year Treasury yield rises 1.5 basis points to 4.159%, according to Tradeweb. (emese.bartha@wsj.com)

0556 ET - U.S. 10-year Treasury yields rose even though the Federal Reserve cut interest rates and they have remained high since, Robert Conzo, CEO and managing director at The Wealth Alliance says. "As the Fed cuts rates, yields should drop, and bonds become more valuable." After the Fed first cut interest rates in September, the 10-year U.S. Treasury yield rose from 3.6% to 4.8% by mid-January. It has since stabilized at around 4.5%, remaining elevated. The recent rise in long-dated yields is a stark reminder to investors that Fed policy only impacts short-dated Treasurys, he says. (emese.bartha@wsj.com)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250211006180:0/)
