---
title: "Market Talk Roundup: Latest on U.S. Politics"
date: "2025-02-14 15:53:00"
summary: "The latest Market Talks covering U.S. politics. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.0253 ET - The dollar falls to a two-month low against a basket of currencies after President Trump announced plans for reciprocal tariffs to be assessed on a country-by-country basis as opposed to blanket tariffs...."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The latest Market Talks covering U.S. politics. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.

0253 ET - The dollar falls to a two-month low against a basket of currencies after President Trump announced plans for reciprocal tariffs to be assessed on a country-by-country basis as opposed to blanket tariffs. Such a process should "inevitably take some time" with investigations expected to complete by April 1 and remedies implemented immediately after, Deutsche Bank analysts say in a note. "In the meantime, questions whether this tariff threat will be used as a negotiating tool are likely to linger." The limited tariff news and lower yields after Thursday's U.S. producer prices data dented the dollar, they say. The DXY dollar index falls to a low of 106.962. (renae.dyer@wsj.com)

0250 ET - U.S. Treasurys trade little changed in early European hours after President Trump ordered federal agencies on Thursday to explore how to adjust U.S. tariffs to match of those of other countries. Treasurys rallied Thursday, fully reversing Wednesday's CPI-triggered selloff. That said, Trump's tariffs measures continue to hang over markets. "The threat of those reciprocal tariffs, plus apparent upcoming announcements on further tariffs on cars, chips, and pharmaceutical products will thus hang over proceedings like the 'sword of Damocles' for a while yet," says Pepperstone's Michael Brown in a note. This creates choppy trading conditions and higher volatility, the senior research strategist says. The 10-year U.S. Treasury yield last trades 2 basis points higher at 4.545%, according to Tradeweb. (emese.bartha@wsj.com)

0249 ET - The U.K.'s FTSE 100 index is expected to open slightly higher, up 0.1%, according to IG, while Germany's DAX looks set to open 0.4% lower after hitting record highs recently. The recent rally in stocks has been helped by earnings data, says XTB's Kathleen Brooks in a note. Traders have largely shrugged off tariff threats for now, but the prospect of Trump announcing tariffs against European goods still looms. President Trump ordered federal agencies on Thursday to explore how to adjust U.S. tariffs to match of those of other countries. Brooks says these could take longer to plan. France's CAC 40 is expected to open down 0.1%, according to IG. (jessica.fleetham@wsj.com)

1752 ET - AUD/USD has strengthened this week, and now trades above 0.6300, having fallen below 0.6250 at one point, but it remains vulnerable because "peak tariff" has not been reached yet, says Joe Capurso, economist at CBA. U.S. President Trump has signaled the implementation of more tariffs on imports and even if Australia can convince the U.S. government to not impose tariffs, some Australian exports to third economies are part of the export supply chain to the U.S., he adds. CBA estimates 2.4% of Australian GDP satisfies U.S. domestic demand through direct and indirect exports, he adds. (james.glynn@wsj.com; @JamesGlynnWSJ)

1523 ET [Dow Jones]--The perceived frontrunner to become Canada's Liberal Party leader and next prime minister, Mark Carney, says there could be a national election as early as mid-March, after party members pick a new leader. Political analysts believe there likely will be an election in the spring, as the opposition parties have vowed to take down the minority Liberal government when parliament resumes March 24. Recent polling shows momentum for the Liberals, with the Conservative Party lead narrowing. Carney says any decision will reflect where things stand with the Trump administration's tariff threats. "If parliament needs to be recalled for certain reasons, it will be. If it makes sense to get a strong mandate at that point, that is what will follow," says Carney, the former Canadian and UK central banker. (paul.vieira@wsj.com)

1433 ET - Fixed-income portfolio managers should avoid taking outsized bets and stick to the duration their clients need, as markets face increased uncertainty, says PGIM's Gregory Peters. "We are in a higher inflation regime and consequently we are in a higher rate regime," he says. Peters says Trump tariffs may increase inflation in the short term, but longer term he is afraid they could hamper growth. Meanwhile, taking risks doesn't seem to be paying off, he says. Peters likes Treasurys over corporates as spreads are tight. "The concern is on the valuation side, that I'm not getting paid for any risks." (paulo.trevisani@wsj.com; @ptrevisani)

1334 ET - UBS expects Wayfair's value proposition to shine given recent investments and continued efforts to right-size cost structure. The analysts say in a research note that the moves could drive "a powerful P&L inflection ahead." As for the impact of higher tariffs on Chinese goods, the analysts say the company is in a better position than other traditional home furnishings players. UBS estimates 50% to 60% Wayfair's sales are sourced from China. Since it has a marketplace model, the analysts say Wayfair should be able to pass along any incremental costs from tariffs to the consumer through higher retail prices. They also point out that Wayfair's large vendor base of over 20,000 suppliers would allow it to shift its source of supply to other companies outside of China. Wayfair rises 3.1%. (sabela.ojea@wsj.com; @sabelaojeaguix)

1252 ET - Crocs has looked at tariffs and run the numbers. The clog and sandal company's guidance for 1Q and 2025 embeds an additional 10% tariff on goods imported from China as well as the anticipated additional 25% tariff on goods imported from Mexico beginning in March, says CFO Susan Healy on an earnings call. She notes that the company doesn't have any production in Canada. "In 2025, we expect the share of enterprise imports into the US from China to be approximately 15%, with Crocs at 10% and Heydude at 27%," says Healy, referring to specific brands. "Our exposure to Mexico is expected to be under 4% and for the Crocs brand only." Crocs surges 19% as 4Q results beat estimates. (denny.jacob@wsj.com; @pennedbyden)

1220 ET - Base metal prices are mixed, with LME three-month copper up 0.1% at $9,481.0 a metric ton and LME three-month aluminum down 0.9% at $2,602 a ton. Copper made some gains to sit 2.4% higher on week, while aluminum has slipped 0.7%. Trading volumes have been relatively thin ahead of expectations of the next round of President Trump's so-called reciprocal tariffs. On Monday, Trump imposed 25% tariffs on all aluminum and steel imports, in addition to previously announced 10% levies on Chinese imports and delayed 25% tariffs on Mexican and Canadian goods. The effect so far on LME prices has been relatively muted, though U.S. premiums have risen to accommodate expectations of higher prices. Trump plans reciprocal tariffs targeting any country that has imposed U.S. levies, promising to sign the order later Thursday. (joseph.hoppe@wsj.com)

1032 ET - Lean hog futures on the CME are 0.4% lower in early trading, with downward momentum coming after the government reported weaker export sales of U.S. pork. The USDA says that through the week ended February 6, pork sales totaled 24,900 metric tons. That's less than half of what was reported by the USDA last week, with sales to Mexico being only 5,000 tons. The White House says President Trump plans to unveil reciprocal tariffs for all trading partners later today. Live cattle is flat in early trade. (kirk.maltais@wsj.com)

1015 ET - A ceasefire in the Ukraine-Russia war could pave the way for a reconstruction project akin to the Marshall Plan that helped rebuild parts of Europe after the World War II or a common bond plan similar to the EU Recovery Fund launched after the Covid pandemic, UBS analysts say. The potential cost of rebuilding Ukraine has been estimated at $0.6 trillion, they note. A ceasefire would also lower energy prices, especially if the deal allows Russian gas to flow again, they add. Falling gas helps lower the price of electricity, which has been abnormally high relative to the U.S., the analysts say. UBS considers a ceasefire quite likely because of increasing signs of fatigue from Ukraine, rising distress in the Russian economy, and the pressure to reach a deal exerted by U.S. President Trump. (cristina.gallardo@wsj.com)

1002 ET - Global central banks are likely to keep moving in different directions, as the Fed remains worried about sticky inflation while others try to spur economic growth, TS Lombard's Dario Perkins writes. "Monetary divergence is finally here," he says. Odds that the Fed would cut rates this year are falling as inflation remains above target. Perkins says price increases are likely to slow later this year, but uncertainties stemming from Trump policies would keep the Fed on hold. "Such considerations are weaker outside the US." He says that, in other countries, "trade wars are a reason to cut interest rates faster." (paulo.trevisani@wsj.com; @ptrevisani)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250214003499:0/)
