---
title: "Heard on the Street Wednesday Recap: Egg Faced — WSJ"
date: "2025-02-13 16:48:00"
summary: "By Heard EditorsInflation came in hotter-than-expected. The consumer-price index rose 3% from a year earlier in January, up from a 2.9% pace in December. Core consumer prices, which exclude food and energy, were up 3.3% from a year earlier, compared with economist expectations for a 3.1% rise. Egg prices hit..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Heard Editors

Inflation came in hotter-than-expected. The consumer-price index rose 3% from a year earlier in January, up from a 2.9% pace in December. Core consumer prices, which exclude food and energy, were up 3.3% from a year earlier, compared with economist expectations for a 3.1% rise. Egg prices hit a new record high.

Stocks took the inflation news surprisingly well. The Dow Jones Industrial Average opened the session down almost 500 points, but by the end of the day investors had calmed somewhat. The Dow closed down 225 points, or 0.5%, while the S&P 500 fell 0.3%. The Nasdaq finished flat.

Bonds were another story. Treasury prices fell on the inflation readings, sending yields sharply higher. The 10-year note yield rose 0.10 percentage point to 4.636%, its biggest one-day gain since Dec. 18.

The Fed might stand pat this year. Investors increasingly think it is possible that the Federal Reserve is already done cutting rates. After the CPI print, futures markets are pricing in a 29.6% chance that the Fed's target rate will be unchanged from now at its meeting in December, up from a 19.6% chance one day ago, according to CME FedWatch.

CVS Health stock rallied. The pharmacy chain and insurer rose 15%, making the stock the top gainer in the S&P 500 on better-than-expected earnings and guidance. The company's new chief executive said there has been significant progress in stabilizing its insurance unit Aetna which, like other insurers, has lately struggled with higher-than-expected medical costs.

* Check out all of the day's live narkets updates here.
* Listen to WSJ Minute Briefing's audio summary of the day in markets.

This item is part of a Wall Street Journal live coverage event. The full stream can be found by searching P/WSJL (WSJ Live Coverage).

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250213004275:0/)
