---
title: "Global Equities Roundup: Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-14 10:42:00"
summary: "The latest Market Talks covering Equities. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.2142 ET - Oiltek International seems to be winning more orders, Phillip Securities Research's Paul Chew says in a research report, as the brokerage raises the stock's target price to S$1.48 from S$1.19 with an unchanged..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The latest Market Talks covering Equities. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.

2142 ET - Oiltek International seems to be winning more orders, Phillip Securities Research's Paul Chew says in a research report, as the brokerage raises the stock's target price to S$1.48 from S$1.19 with an unchanged buy rating. As plantation production and acreage grow outside Southeast Asia, the integrated process technology and renewable energy solutions provider is obtaining additional refinery orders, the head of research notes. The brokerage is upbeat on the Singapore-listed company's new orders to be secured this year, with biodiesel capacity in Indonesia and Malaysia and refining facilities in South America as areas of opportunity. Shares are 0.85% lower at S$1.17. (ronnie.harui@wsj.com)

2059 ET - Chinese shares are fluctuating between mild gains and losses after opening mostly lower. Investors are digesting President Trump's next move on tariffs after a delay of his long-threatened reciprocal tariffs. Pharmaceutical and auto stocks are leading the gains. Jiangsu Hengrui Medicine is up 1.4% and WuXi AppTec is 3.8% higher. BYD increases 1.4% and Great Wall Motor is 2.05% higher. Property stocks are broadly lower with Poly Developments & Holdings Group down 1.2% and China Vanke falling 2.0%. The benchmark Shanghai Composite Index is down 0.2% at 3326.94, the Shenzhen Composite Index is 0.2% lower and the ChiNext Price Index is up 0.4%. (sherry.qin@wsj.com)

2046 ET - Hong Kong shares are higher in early trade, supported by tech and consumer product stocks. Sentiment remains positive and investors are watching companies' earnings to evaluate fundamentals and valuations. Among the top gainers, Alibaba Health Information Technology is up 7.5% and Kuaishou Technology rises 4.2%. JD.com and Meituan are up 3.6% and 2.9%, respectively. China Mengniu Dairy adds 2.7% and China Resources Beer gains 2.4%. Among the few decliners, WH Group is down 1.6% and Zhongsheng Group is 1.25% lower. The benchmark Hang Seng Index is up 1.4% at 22122.50 and the Hang Seng Tech gains 1.8%.(jiahui.huang@wsj.com; @ivy\_jiahuihuang)

2032 ET - South32's stock appears to be gaining tailwinds, according to Citi analysts Paul McTaggart and Ephrem Ravi, who upgrade the miner's shares to buy from neutral. They expect improved cash generation in 2H FY 2025, with a working capital unwind and lower unit operating costs on higher production. South32 is also likely to expand buyback activity and, by FY results, update investors on a possible sale of its Cerro Matoso nickel operation. "Investors would likely soon shift their focus to FY27 with yet higher production and our FY27 [copper] price of US$4.76/pound for EV/Ebitda of 3.1x," the analysts say. Citi's target goes to A$4.00 from A$3.90. South32 is up 1.1% at A$3.61/share. (rhiannon.hoyle@wsj.com; @RhiannonHoyle)

2024 ET - iFAST's 2025-2026 earnings stand to benefit from two tailwinds, DBS Group Research's Lee Keng Ling says in a research report. The investment product distribution platform achieved record-high assets under administration of S$25.01 billion as at end-December, with management setting a target to reach S$100 billion by 2028-2030, the analyst notes. DBS raises its 2025 and 2026 earnings estimates for iFAST by roughly 10% each year as it now assumes higher AUA growth of 20% a year versus the 15% forecast previously. Higher contributions from iFAST Global Bank are also expected on its improved profitability. DBS raises the stock's target price to S$10.23 from S$9.57 and maintians a buy rating. Shares are 0.6% lower at S$7.82. (ronnie.harui@wsj.com)

2016 ET - Singapore's FTSE Straits Times Index falls 0.4% to 3867.97 as investors digest U.S. President Trump's tariff actions. Trump ordered officials to address what he described as "unfair" conduct by trading partners, a move toward potentially wide-ranging tariffs, Phillip Securities Research team says in commentary. However, Trump's plan also didn't include immediate levies, the team adds. Among the worst performers on the benchmark index, Singapore Exchange slips 5.1%, DFI Retail Group falls 1.7%, and Seatrium is down 1.6%. Meanwhile, Mapletree Logistics Trust rises 1.6% and Frasers Logistics & Commercial Trust adds 1.15%. (ronnie.harui@wsj.com)

2015 ET - Computershare's price-to-earnings is well above its 15-year average, suggesting to Morgan Stanley analyst Andrei Stadnik that the stock's re-rating may have come ahead of schedule. He points out in a note to clients that the share-registry provider's margin income--interest earned on cash held for dividends--is likely to fall from 80% of pretax profit to about 65% in fiscal 2026. Stadnik says the stock is more sensitive to rate moves than either banks or insurers, with EPS growth into fiscal 2026 looking limited. MS lifts its target price 18% to A$36.60 but maintains an equal-weight rating on the stock. Shares are up 0.7% at A$42.875. (stuart.condie@wsj.com)

2012 ET - Kakao's 2025 earnings could be pressured by slower-than-expected recovery in its targeted advertising and e-commerce markets and higher-than-expected costs for artificial intelligence-related services, Daiwa Capital analysts Thomas Y. Kwon and Joon Lee write in a note. They lower their 2025 EPS forecast for the South Korean mobile internet company by 16%. Still, they positively note Kakao's planned new AI services for users in 1H and potentially strong growth momentum in user traffic, advertisement revenue and operating profit from 2H. Daiwa cuts its target price for the stock by 2.8% to KRW54,800 but keeps a buy rating. Shares are 0.6% lower at KRW39,950. (kwanwoo.jun@wsj.com)

2011 ET - CelcomDigi's outlook appears less appealing, Maybank IB analyst Tan Chi Wei says in a note. Given the telco's weaker-than-expected 4Q 2024 results and more conservative 2025 guidance, a sharp net profit recovery may not materialize, he reckons. Even though unchanged merger synergy savings is positive, elevated IT capital expenditure could limit earnings growth, he adds. Tan cuts CelcomDigi's 2025-2026 net profit estimates by 25% and 28%, respectively, to reflect the company's tepid guidance. Maybank downgrades CelcomDigi's rating to hold from buy and cuts its target price to MYR3.80 from MYR4.50. Shares are 1.0% lower at MYR3.83. (yingxian.wong@wsj.com)

2006 ET - Malaysia's benchmark Kuala Lumpur Composite Index is flat at 1592.55. External headwinds may weigh on the local bourse with foreign funds returning to net selling, Apex Securities says in a note. While bargain hunting may emerge, a lack of fresh domestic catalysts could limit gains, the brokerage reckons. Investors are awaiting Malaysia's 4Q 2024 GDP data later in the day, it says. Gold-related stocks may benefit from rising prices, while the tech sector could track Nasdaq's positive momentum, it adds. Among the gainers, Press Metal Aluminium adds 1.2% and Sunway Bhd. is up 1.1%. Meanwhile, Mr. D.I.Y. Group is down 0.6% and CelcomDigi is 1.0% lower. (yingxian.wong@wsj.com)

1947 ET - High-end glass bottle manufacturer Saverglass is showing signs of life after a difficult start under Orora's ownership, but tariffs are clouding the outlook. Saverglass has its strongest order book in 18 months, driven by demand in North America for bourbon and tequila. "However, order book lift needs to flow through to sales and tariffs are now a complicating factor," Macquarie says. "Saverglass has production agility across its global network to manage potential tariff impacts." Macquarie has an outperform call on Orora, which is down another 0.2% today. (david.winning@wsj.com; @dwinningWSJ)

1937 ET - For Spark NZ, this year likely won't be as bad as 2024, which included two downgrades to its guidance. Still, Forsyth Barr says the New Zealand telco's improvement will be driven by cost savings rather than revenue growth. Analyst Aaron Ibbotson expects Spark NZ's cash flow generation will be positive again, partly due to big cut in capex. But while its free cash flow is improving, it won't cover its dividend in FY 2025, Forsyth Barr says. "Further non-core assets sales may be announced in order to cover its dividend shortfall or fund its data center developments," Forsyth Barr says. Spark NZ is due to report its 1H results on Feb. 21. (david.winning@wsj.com; @dwinningWSJ)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250213018241:0/)
