---
title: "Financial Services Roundup: Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-12 01:20:00"
summary: "The latest Market Talks covering Financial Services. Exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires at 4:20 ET, 12:20 ET and 16:50 ET.1050 ET - Questioning Fed Chair Jerome Powell, the early focus of Democratic senators Elizabeth Warren and Catherine Cortez Masto is bank regulation. Warren and Cortez Masto focus many of their..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The latest Market Talks covering Financial Services. Exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires at 4:20 ET, 12:20 ET and 16:50 ET.

1050 ET - Questioning Fed Chair Jerome Powell, the early focus of Democratic senators Elizabeth Warren and Catherine Cortez Masto is bank regulation. Warren and Cortez Masto focus many of their questions on whether there is a regulatory vacuum as the Trump administration aims to reduce the role of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. (matt.grossman@wsj.com; @mattgrossman)

1043 ET - In senate testimony Fed Chair Jerome Powell outlines the federal payments system that has been the center of controversy amid Trump administration efforts to scrutinize its operations. Powell explains that the role of the Treasury is to establish which payments should be made when and to confirm that federal payments comply with agency needs and all legal requirements. As fiscal agent, the Fed has a role in executing federal payments. Asked if he believes the system remains safe today, Powell says that he believes it is. (matt.grossman@wsj.com, @mattgrossman)

1031 ET - Responding to a question from Republican Senator Tim Scott, Fed Chair Jerome Powell says that he will work with Congress and with colleagues at the Fed to examine ways to address debanking. "I'm happy to make that commitment," Powell says. The question was preceded by remarks from Scott about complaints that the Fed has treated financial institutions involved in cryptocurrency unfairly. (matt.grossman@wsj.com; @mattgrossman)

0815 ET - Toronto-Dominion Bank expects to net C$20 billion from the sale of its investment in Charles Schwab, with C$8 billion of that earmarked for a share buyback program. The exit from Schwab is the first major move by the bank's new CEO. TD estimates the transaction, including the buyback, will create about 1.16 percentage point of CET1 capital. The remainder of the proceeds are to be invested in TD's businesses, and the transaction is set to bolster per-share earnings on a run-rate basis. Moody's views the credit impact of TD's Schwab sale as modest given the non-core nature of the investment, and with TD and Schwab continuing their insured deposit account agreement. However, Moody's says the plan to return a large portion of the proceeds to shareholders is credit negative, though TD had a CET1 ratio of 13.1% at the end of fiscal 4Q, well above regulatory minimums. (robb.stewart@wsj.com; @RobbMStewart)

0500 ET - UBS's lower leverage, higher earnings and lower valuation prompt Deutsche Bank to upgrade its rating on the stock, the brokerage says in a research note after the Swiss bank's quarterly results. "We think the actions on capital return and managing regulatory risks should provide some comfort to investors, in particular as compared to understandably conservative management statements on the call," analysts Benjamin Goy and Sharath Kumar write. The long-term investment case is based on capital generation, given that there are no easy fixes available for the too-big-to-fail issues, they say. Regulatory uncertainty remains ahead of the Swiss consultation in May, they add. Deutsche raises its rating on the stock to buy from hold and its target price to 37 euros from 29 euros. Shares trade at 30.2 euros and have risen 9% in the year to date. (elena.vardon@wsj.com)

0412 ET - The outcome BPER Banca's takeover offer will depend on how the market digests the all-share deal, Citi says in a research note. BPER is the latest Italian bank to join the recent surge in M&A activity in Italy. The lender's bid for Banca Popolare di Sondrio shouldn't be surprising based on their common product companies. The banks share a main shareholder, and there is a low acceptance threshold, so the deal could be successful, analyst Azzurra Guelfi writes. Still, "the market yet again has an important role and will likely look for a higher price while debating the benefits for minority shareholders." Meanwhile, questions remain on BPER's financial metrics, which led Citi to cut its stock rating to hold from buy. BPER shares have fallen 8% and Sondrio's have risen 3% since Thursday night's announcement. (elena.vardon@wsj.com)

0334 ET - Mediobanca's strong profit and revenue beats, along with its outlook confirmation and improved 2026 targets, confirm its franchise potential, Citi says in a research note. The market should have a positive reaction to the Italian bank's results, which has recently rejected a takeover approach from peer Monte dei Paschi, analyst Azzurra Guelfi writes. "We would expect the market to continue to re-rate the stock," she says. The results could also push a higher premium for Monte dei Paschi's current offer, which Citi remains skeptical on, Guelfi notes. Shares open 2.1% higher at 16.90 euros. (elena.vardon@wsj.com)

0318 ET - Mediobanca's new targets for 2026 imply earnings per share that are more than 4% higher than current consensus expectations, Jefferies says in a research note after the Italian bank's quarterly results. Revenue is now expected at 4 billion euros, against 3.8 billion euros previously, with over 1.4 billion euros in net profit. The guidance was outlined alongside its results for the fourth quarter of 2024, in which it posted a profit beat thanks to strong fees in its corporate and investment bank and backed its earnings per share growth guidance for 2025. Shares in Mediobanca, which recently rejected a takeover offer from peer Monte dei Paschi, rose 2% at market open. (elena.vardon@wsj.com)

0252 ET - UniCredit's outlook for the years ahead and its better-than-expected results shouldn't disappoint the market, Keefe, Bruyette & Woods says in a research note after the Italian bank's fourth-quarter print. The earnings beat was solid due to better net interest income, while some items were weaker than estimates, analysts Hugo Cruz and Ben Maher write. "We think that is mainly "front loading" ahead of 2025," they say, referring to expenses taken during the end of last year. The net profit, net revenue and return on tangible equity guidance for 2025 surpasses current consensus estimates for the year, they add. (elena.vardon@wsj.com)

2223 ET - DBS remains as a safe haven for investors to "hide out and tide through" current uncertainties and market volatility, say RHB Research analysts in a note. The Singapore bank's dividend and capital return policies offer investors clear visibility on the expected dividend yield ahead, they write. RHB raises its 2025 dividend per share forecast to S$3.06 from S$2.46 after factoring DBS' plans to introduce a capital return dividend of S$0.15 per quarter. RHB also raises the stock's target price to S$51.20 from S$44.70, while maintaining a buy rating. Shares are 1.0% lower at S$44.92.(amanda.lee@wsj.com)

2147 ET - Maybank remains bullish on DBS after the Singapore bank's 2024 earnings beat street expectations. DBS's loan growth is expected to accelerate to 5.4% on year in FY2025 and its return on equity to average to 15.8% in 2025-2027 compared with the 12% in the past 10 years, according to Maybank's head of equity research Thilan Wickramasinghe. While net interest margin growth is unlikely to persist going in to 2025, the management claims that the credit pipeline is strong, helping offset NIM declines, Wickramasinghe notes in a report. Earnings could grow at 1% CAGR over 2025-2027, while dividends may expand at 7%, delivering more than 6.5% yields, he says. All of the factors mentioned justifies a higher valuation, he adds. Maybank raises the stock's target price to S$51.37 From S$46.91. Shares are last at S$44.93. (monica.gupta@wsj.com)

2042 ET - Singapore Exchange stands to benefit from an uncertain macroeconomic outlook and potential rate cuts this year, UOB Kay Hian analysts say in a research report. These would improve trading velocity at SGX, sending its cash equities segment into revenue and profitability growth, the analysts say. Also, upcoming announcements from the Monetary Authority of Singapore's review group to revitalize Singapore's stock market would likely boost investor sentiment in 2025, they add. The brokerage lifts its FY 2025-2027 headline PATMI forecasts for SGX by 8%-9% to reflect higher margin assumptions. It raises the stock's target price to S$12.58 from S$11.83 with an unchanged hold rating. Shares are 0.4% higher at S$13.76. (ronnie.harui@wsj.com)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250211008212:0/)
