---
title: "Trump Wants to Own Gaza. Here's What It Would Take to Rebuild. — WSJ"
date: "2025-02-08 12:00:00"
summary: "By Omar Abdel-Baqui and Brian McGillPresident Trump this week called for the U.S. to take long-term control of the Gaza Strip and rebuild the devastated enclave while nearly two million Palestinians are moved elsewhere, at least temporarily.\"The U.S., working with great development teams from all over the World, would slowly..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Omar Abdel-Baqui and Brian McGill

President Trump this week called for the U.S. to take long-term control of the Gaza Strip and rebuild the devastated enclave while nearly two million Palestinians are moved elsewhere, at least temporarily.

"The U.S., working with great development teams from all over the World, would slowly and carefully begin the construction of what would become one of the greatest and most spectacular developments of its kind on Earth," Trump wrote on his social-media platform Truth Social.

The proposition drew widespread condemnation from Palestinians and officials in Europe and the Middle East.

Whether the president's plan for Gaza is realized or not, the scale and cost of rebuilding the Philadelphia-size enclave is monumental. While estimates vary, the United Nations says about 70% of structures in Gaza are either destroyed or damaged, including over 245,000 housing units. The war in the Gaza Strip has produced destruction equivalent to the most devastating urban warfare in the modern record.

City blocks are flattened. Palestinians say their neighborhoods are unrecognizable. Streets are torn apart, scattered with unexploded ordnance. Around 50 million tons of debris created during months of bombing are expected to take more than a decade to remove.

More than 47,000 people have been killed, according to Palestinian health authorities, whose figures don't say how many were combatants. Thousands more are missing. Bodies lie trapped under toppled buildings. Damage to the sewage system has led to pooling waste, and downed power lines mean blackouts are widespread. Electricity is produced mainly by solar panels or generators.

Experts say it will take tens of billions of dollars to rebuild Gaza. U.N. estimates suggest that restoring the enclave's economic output to prewar levels would take 350 years.

The discussion about postwar Gaza is taking place in parallel with a temporary cease-fire to free hostages in exchange for Palestinians in Israeli prisons. A second phase of talks — to seek an end to the war — hasn't begun. Many Palestinians say they are determined to remain in the enclave.

"The Gaza Strip belongs to the Palestinian people," said Riyad Mansour, the Palestinian Ambassador to the U.N. "It is not a free piece of land for anyone to grab. Those days in history are gone."

For now, Hamas is effectively back in control of the strip, which might mean some countries, including Arab Gulf states, would withhold assistance for reconstruction in the long term.

Meanwhile, the U.S.-backed Palestinian Authority is seeking a role in governing, a proposal the Biden administration had said it supported. Some Israeli right wingers are calling for a sustained Israeli military occupation of the enclave, and others support Trump's proposal.

Whatever shape the rebuilding of Gaza takes, it will take many years and cost billions of dollars.

Write to Omar Abdel-Baqui at omar.abdel-baqui@wsj.com and Brian McGill at brian.mcgill@wsj.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250207011832:0/)
