---
title: "T. ROWE PRICE GROUP DECLARES QUARTERLY DIVIDEND"
date: "2025-02-11 22:31:00"
summary: "T. ROWE PRICE GROUP DECLARES QUARTERLY DIVIDENDPR NewswireBALTIMORE, Feb. 11, 2025BALTIMORE, Feb. 11, 2025 /PRNewswire/ — T. Rowe Price Group, Inc. (NASDAQ-GS: TROW), announced today that its Board of Directors has declared a quarterly dividend of $1.27 per share payable March 28, 2025, to stockholders of record as of the..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

T. ROWE PRICE GROUP DECLARES QUARTERLY DIVIDEND

PR Newswire

BALTIMORE, Feb. 11, 2025

BALTIMORE, Feb. 11, 2025 /PRNewswire/ — T. Rowe Price Group, Inc. (NASDAQ-GS: TROW), announced today that its Board of Directors has declared a quarterly dividend of $1.27 per share payable March 28, 2025, to stockholders of record as of the close of business on March 14, 2025. The quarterly dividend rate represents a 2.42% increase over the previous quarterly dividend rate of $1.24 per share. This will mark the 39th consecutive year since the firm's initial public offering that the company will have increased its regular annual dividend.

ABOUT T. ROWE PRICE

Founded in 1937, T. Rowe Price (NASDAQ-GS: TROW) helps individuals and institutions around the world achieve their long-term investment goals. As a large global asset management company known for investment excellence, retirement leadership, and independent proprietary research, the firm is built on a culture of integrity that puts client interests first. Clients rely on the award-winning firm for its retirement expertise and active management of equity, fixed income, alternatives, and multi-asset investment capabilities. T. Rowe Price serves millions of clients globally and manages $1.61 trillion in assets under management as of December 31, 2024. About two-thirds of the assets under management are retirement-related. News and other updates can be found on Facebook, Instagram, LinkedIn, X, YouTube, and troweprice.com/newsroom.

View original content to download multimedia:https://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/t-rowe-price-group-declares-quarterly-dividend-302373629.html

SOURCE T. Rowe Price Group

/CONTACT: T. ROWE PRICE CONTACTS: Public Relations, Jamaal Mobley, +1 410-345-3403, jamaal.mobley@troweprice.com; Investor Relations, Linsley Carruth, +1 410-345-3717, linsley.carruth@troweprice.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250211006317:0/)
