---
title: "Lyft Sees Growth Slowdown in 1Q Gross Bookings, Shares Fall 12% — Update"
date: "2025-02-12 05:54:00"
summary: "By Sabela OjeaLyft guided for a deceleration in its bookings growth for the first quarter, sending its stock lower after reporting fourth-quarter results.The stock was down 12% to $12.65 in post-market trading on Tuesday. Through the close shares are up 19% in last year.The ride-sharing company on said it expects..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Sabela Ojea

Lyft guided for a deceleration in its bookings growth for the first quarter, sending its stock lower after reporting fourth-quarter results.

The stock was down 12% to $12.65 in post-market trading on Tuesday. Through the close shares are up 19% in last year.

The ride-sharing company on said it expects first-quarter gross bookings to rise 10% to 14% to between $4.05 billion and $4.20 billion amid price increases and expected rides growth in the mid teen on a percentage basis. Wall Street forecasted for higher growth, with an estimate for gross bookings of $4.24 billion.

Last week, rival Uber Technologies' shares declined after the company reported lower-than-expected income for the fourth quarter, despite delivering an outlook for the first quarter that was broadly in line with analysts' forecasts.

Lyft's worse-than-expected guidance came after the company logged a jump in quarterly revenue as more people used the ride-sharing app.

In the fourth quarter, the company logged gross bookings growth of 15% to $4.3 billion, and a 10% increase in active riders to 24.7 million. Analysts surveyed by FactSet expected $4.32 billion in gross bookings and 24.6 million active users.

Lyft posted a quarterly profit of $61.7 million compared with a loss of $26.3 million a year ago. Wall Street analysts had expected a loss of $3.4 million.

Revenue rose to $1.55 billion from $1.22 billion a year earlier, below the $1.56 billion forecast by Wall Street.

Lyft also said it would spend $500 million to buyback its shares in a move approved by its board of directors. The company didn't provide a timeline for the stock repurchases.

Write to Sabela Ojea at sabela.ojea@wsj.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250211011814:0/)
