---
title: "Market Talk Roundup: Latest on U.S. Politics"
date: "2025-02-11 00:55:00"
summary: "The latest Market Talks covering U.S. politics. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.1155 ET - Base metal prices rise, with LME three-month copper up 0.2% at $9,456.5 a metric ton and LME three-month aluminum up 1.2% at $2,659 a ton. President Trump has proposed 25% tariffs on..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The latest Market Talks covering U.S. politics. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.

1155 ET - Base metal prices rise, with LME three-month copper up 0.2% at $9,456.5 a metric ton and LME three-month aluminum up 1.2% at $2,659 a ton. President Trump has proposed 25% tariffs on aluminum and steel imports, which has generated erratic movements on the markets, ActivTrades' Saverio Berlinzani says in a note. U.S. Midwest domestic hot-rolled coil steel futures are up 6.1% at a 10-month high, while aluminum is gaining on concerns about a potential drop in supply, especially in the manufacturing and automotive areas, Berlinzani writes. Analysts and industry experts expect the tariffs to increase prices, which will inevitably be passed onto final consumers, Berlinzani says. In parallel with an increase in inflation, this could further delay U.S. interest-rate cuts--further damping industrial metal demand, Berlinzani adds. (joseph.hoppe@wsj.com)

1145 ET - Gold futures rise to record highs on safe-haven demand. Futures are up 1.5% at $2,932.10 a troy ounce, having reached $2,938.10 earlier in the session. Gold's gains come as global trade war risks escalate, SP Angel analysts say in a note. President Trump said he will impose 25% tariffs on all steel and aluminum imports into the U.S., and will be looking to outline retaliatory tariffs on imports from a wide range of countries that tax U.S. exports, SP Angel says. China has imposed retaliatory tariffs on $14 billion's worth of goods from the U.S. in a sign the economic conflict is escalating, SP Angel says. A new Chinese pilot program will also allow 10 insurance firms to invest up to 1% of their holdings in gold, equivalent to around $27 billion in new demand, SP Angel adds. (joseph.hoppe@wsj.com)

1134 ET - President Trump announced intentions to levy 25% tariffs on U.S. imports of steel and aluminum, which has injected a fresh round of uncertainty into financial markets. But metal traders are not convinced that a global tariff on aluminum imports in particular will stick, says Natalie Scott-Gray of StoneX in a note. "It is potentially difficult to see a scenario in which global 25% tariffs on aluminium go into action, given the U.S.'s heavy reliance on imports and lack of current domestic capacity," says Scott-Gray. Primary aluminum produced in the U.S. has been on the decline for decades, losing roughly 80% of its domestic production capacity in the past two decades. China has stepped in as the leading producer of aluminum worldwide in that timeframe. (kirk.maltais@wsj.com)

1049 ET - Corporate bonds issued by companies within U.S. tech, auto and basic materials sectors have a higher exposure to foreign revenue and are more vulnerable to tariffs implemented by President Trump, BNP Paribas credit strategists say in a note. Issuers within services sectors, however, such as healthcare and cruise companies, have lower foreign sales and are better placed to avoid the negative impacts of tariffs, the strategists say. (miriam.mukuru@wsj.com)

1047 ET - Biotechnology is likely to stay resilient despite tariffs, Benchmark analyst Bruce Jackson expects. While development costs may rise, there could be more mergers and acquisitions in the industry if there is less scrutiny from the Federal Trade Commission under the Trump administration. Pharma companies looking to bolster pipelines could also drive merger activity. The metabolic, central nervous system and oncology biotech industries are expected to grow while vaccines and rare diseases are more likely to face challenges. (katherine.hamilton@wsj.com)

1043 ET - Tariffs could lead to shortages and higher prices for pharmaceuticals and medical devices, Benchmark analyst Bruce Jackson says. Trump has said his tariffs are intended to bring jobs back to the U.S., but pharmaceutical companies may be hesitant to build manufacturing capacity domestically, especially in areas where profit margins are thin, like generic drugs and hospital supplies, Jackson says. It could also take up to two years to start making medical equipment in the U.S., and up to five years to launch drug manufacturing facilities, Jackson adds. (katherine.hamilton@wsj.com)

1039 ET - Prices of euro-denominated corporate bonds exposed to potential U.S. tariffs don't sufficiently reflect the risk of such tariffs, BNP Paribas credit strategists say in a note. The 'Tariff Risk Premium' which measures the spread between tariff-sensitive names and euro non-financial bonds, shows that only modest risk is priced in, they say. After Trump's first announcement on plans for tariffs on goods from Canada, Mexico and China following his inauguration, euro credit spreads widened in line with macro weakness, but "without much differentiation." (miriam.mukuru@wsj.com)

0941 ET - The USDA reports that Mexico has purchased 365,000 metric tons of U.S. corn for delivery in the 2024/25 marketing year. Even with an increasingly-tense world trade environment, Mexico is still buying large volumes of U.S. grains. The sale also comes after Mexico dropped its restrictions on GMO corn. Most-active corn futures on the CBOT are unchanged, with trading expected to be tentative ahead of tomorrow's WASDE, although no big revelations for the U.S. corn crop are expected. Traders are focused on how the USDA may change it's estimates on South American production. (kirk.maltais@wsj.com)

0928 ET - The dollar weakens against most major currencies while dollar indexes rise, as markets react to a new set of tariffs announced by President Trump over the weekend. Both the ICE's DXY gauge and the broader WSJ Dollar Index rise around 0.1%, while the greenback weakens 0.2% against the euro and strengthens 0.3% versus the yen. The 25% levy on all steel and aluminum imports to the U.S. looks less likely to be avoided the way previous country-targeting tariffs were. Goldman Sachs' Stuart Jenkins writes that "we think they would have a more durable Dollar impact that the market is not yet fully pricing." (paulo.trevisani@wsj.com; @ptrevisani)

0911 ET - Treasury yields hover around Friday's settlement levels as the week once again starts with the threat of tariffs announced over the weekend. This time around, there seems to be less room for negotiation to avoid a 25% levy on steel and aluminium. Questions remain about how tariffs will impact inflation and Fed decisions on interest rates. Markets are mostly pricing not more than one cut this year, CME data show. That could be a sign of growing concerns about inflation. Chair Powell has his semiannual report to Congress tomorrow at the Senate and Wednesday at the House. The 10-year is at 4.486% and the two-year at 4.271%. (paulo.trevisani@wsj.com; @ptrevisani)

0828 ET - The euro could strengthen against the dollar if the EU avoids harsh tariffs from Trump, Morgan Stanley analysts say in a note. "Our base case includes gradual, targeted tariffs on the EU later in 2025, preceded by a reinstatement of the Section 232 steel and aluminum tariffs," they say. Such targeted tariffs would unlikely have a significant impact on euro-area economic growth. Morgan Stanley continues to advise buying the euro, targeting a level of $1.08. The euro is last up 0.2% at $1.0316. (renae.dyer@wsj.com)

0803 ET - Base metal prices are mixed, with LME three-month copper down 0.3% at $9,408 a metric ton and LME three-month aluminum up 0.2% at $2,632.50 a ton. LME aluminum has been holding steady after President Trump said he will impose 25% tariffs on all imports of aluminum and steel into the U.S. The U.S. imports significant volumes of aluminum and steel from Canada, and with Trump back in the White House, uncertainty and unpredictability are running high, ING analysts say in a note. A prolonged trade conflict will slow global growth and hit industrial metals demand, ING says. In 2018, Trump imposed 10% and 25% tariffs on imported aluminum and steel respectively to boost domestic production--the duties on Mexico and Canada were lifted a year later after a new free trade agreement with the U.S., ING adds. (joseph.hoppe@wsj.com)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250210007689:0/)
