---
title: "Payoneer receives regulatory approval for its acquisition of a licensed China-based payment service provider"
date: "2025-02-14 03:30:00"
summary: "Payoneer receives regulatory approval for its acquisition of a licensed China-based payment service providerNEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)--February 13, 2025--Payoneer , the financial technology company empowering the world's small and medium-sized businesses (SMBs) to transact, do business, and grow globally, today announced that it has received the regulatory approvals in China required..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Payoneer receives regulatory approval for its acquisition of a licensed China-based payment service provider

NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)--February 13, 2025--

Payoneer , the financial technology company empowering the world's small and medium-sized businesses (SMBs) to transact, do business, and grow globally, today announced that it has received the regulatory approvals in China required to complete its previously announced acquisition of a licensed China-based payment service provider. The transaction is expected to close in the first half of 2025, subject to customary closing conditions.

About Payoneer

Payoneer is the financial technology company empowering the world's small and medium-sized businesses to transact, do business, and grow globally. Payoneer was founded in 2005 with the belief that talent is equally distributed, but opportunity is not. It is our mission to enable any entrepreneur and business anywhere to participate and succeed in an increasingly digital global economy. Since our founding, we have built a global financial stack that removes barriers and simplifies cross-border commerce. We make it easier for millions of SMBs, particularly in emerging markets, to connect to the global economy, pay and get paid, manage their funds across multiple currencies, and grow their businesses.

Forward-Looking Statements

This press release includes, and oral statements made from time to time by representatives of Payoneer, may be considered "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the "safe harbor" provisions of the United States Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements generally relate to future events or Payoneer's future financial or operating performance. For example, statements on the expected closing of the transaction, and projections of future revenue, transaction cost and adjusted EBITDA, are forward-looking statements. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by terminology such as "may," "should," "expect," "intend," "plan," "will," "estimate," "anticipate," "believe," "predict," "potential" or "continue," or the negatives of these terms or variations of them or similar terminology. Such forward-looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties, and other factors which could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are based upon estimates and assumptions that, while considered reasonable by Payoneer and its management, as the case may be, are inherently uncertain. Factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from current expectations include, but are not limited to: (1) changes in applicable laws or regulations; (2) the possibility that Payoneer may be adversely affected by geopolitical events and conflicts, such as Israel's ongoing conflicts in the Middle East, and other economic, business and/or competitive factors; (3) changes in the assumptions underlying our financial estimates; (4) the outcome of any known and/or unknown legal or regulatory proceedings; and (5) other risks and uncertainties set forth in Payoneer's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the period ended December 31, 2023 and future reports that Payoneer may file with the SEC from time to time. Nothing in this press release should be regarded as a representation by any person that the forward-looking statements set forth herein will be achieved or that any of the contemplated results of such forward-looking statements will be achieved. You should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date they are made. Payoneer does not undertake any duty to update these forward-looking statements.

View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20250213943003/en/

CONTACT: Investor Contact:

Caius Slater

investor@payoneer.com

Media Contact:

Alison Dahlman

PR@payoneer.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250213013470:0/)
