---
title: "Gold Tops $2,900 an Ounce as Tariff Threats Stack — Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-11 03:19:00"
summary: "1419 ET - Threats by President Trump to apply or raise tariffs on trading partners around the globe have traders jumping into gold futures — with the front-month contract closing up 1.6% to $2,914.30 a troy ounce. It's a new record for front-month gold, cracking the $2,900 barrier for the..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

1419 ET - Threats by President Trump to apply or raise tariffs on trading partners around the globe have traders jumping into gold futures — with the front-month contract closing up 1.6% to $2,914.30 a troy ounce. It's a new record for front-month gold, cracking the $2,900 barrier for the first time. Trump's latest threats, a 25% tariff on steel and aluminum sent to the U.S., looks to have an outsized impact on Canada and Mexico, with Canada selling the U.S. roughly 60% of the aluminum it imports. But markets remain unclear on if this is happening at all. "Recent events have taught us all not to take anything for granted and it's still possible that carve-outs or exemptions will be agreed," says Capital Economics in a note.SPDR Gold rises 1.6%. (kirk.maltais@wsj.com)

1341 ET - Expedia surged 17% on Friday after beating on 4Q top and bottom lines and reinstating its quarterly dividend, but D.A. Davidson says 1Q initial guidance was mixed. As a result, analysts Tom White and Wyatt Swanson say they're trimming forecasts on incremental foreign exchange headwinds, but bumping up targets on an improved underlying growth profile. The analysts say their neutral rating takes into account "the company's solid category position in an overall healthy/resilient leisure travel market," and its leading position in an expanding B2B market. But, they question the pace of recovery in Expedia's Vrbo and Hotels.com brands as well as and the company's ability "to meaningfully close its overall profitability/margin gap vs. peers." Expedia is up 0.3% to $202.81.(sabela.ojea@wsj.com; @sabelaojeaguix)

1256 ET - Canada is the biggest foreign supplier of steel and aluminum to the US market. However, the fallout from 25% US tariffs on those two commodities, as President Trump has promised, would be minimal for the Canadian economy, Capital Economics says. "The impact on GDP should be limited," the firm says, noting Canadian steel and aluminum exports to US account for just 1% of GDP. CapEcon says it doesn't believe Ottawa will do much in terms of retaliation, although noting that public-opinion polls show widespread support for taking a tough approach against the Trump administration. Given that US exports accounts for one-fifth of Canada GDP, "any serious [retaliation] measures would be Canada cutting off its nose to spite its face." (Paul.Vieira@wsj.com, @paulvieira)

1237 ET - Treasury Secretary Scott Bessent spoke with Canadian Finance Minister Dominic LeBlanc, according to a summary of the call from the Treasury Department. The readout indicates Bessent stressed the importance of the U.S. and Canada "to combat security threats and engage on economic issues." The reference to security threats likely refers to border security, and stemming the flow of migrants and illegal drugs, like fentanyl, into the U.S. Trump has threatened a 25% tariff on all nonenergy imports from Canada unless Ottawa takes steps to fortify border security and deterring fentanyl trafficking. Spokesmen for LeBlanc did not immediately respond about the phone call with Bessent. (paul.vieira@wsj.com; @paulvieira)

1229 ET - Light & Wonder had a recent legal victory in Australia that alleviates concern that litigation might affect previously sold "Dragon Train" games in the country, Benchmark's Mike Hickey says in a note. A court denied rival Aristocrat Technologies' request for an interlocutory injunction concerning the game in litigation over intellectual-property infringement. Light & Wonder says the ruling is focused on its content pipeline for this year and beyond and doesn't require action from customers, says Hickey. Benchmark has a buy rating on the shares, which were up 10% at $96.93. (mark.long@wsj.com)

1225 ET - Spectrum Brands' near 8% selloff on Thursday was likely due to signals in 1Q results suggesting the separation of its Home and Personal Care business is not imminent, UBS says in a note. The analysts say the maker of products like Black Flag insecticide and George Foreman grills delivered a solid 1Q and reiterated its FY25 guidance across the board. They also say they were encouraged by the company's commentary around the tariff situation and believe the outlook remains achievable. "We think the risk/reward continues to skew to the upside." Spectrum Brands is off 4% to $75.04. (sabela.ojea@wsj.com; @sabelaojeaguix)

1150 ET - Capri Holdings shows "no clear evidence of a near-term turnaround," says BofA Securities in a note, adding that the stock will likely remain rangebound through 2026 which should be a transitional year for the company. Store closures and foreign exchange will negatively impact F2026 sales, and wholesale is expected to decline low double-digits, the analysts say. They also believe a sale of non-core brands Versace and Jimmy Choo would allow management to narrow its focus and allocate more resources to Michael Kors. BofA reinstates a neutral rating on the stock with a target price of $23 a share. Capri rises 3.5% to $22.44. (sabela.ojea@wsj.com; @sabelaojeaguix)

1100 ET - Consumers deliver a split take on the labor market in the New York Fed's latest survey. Earnings growth expectations over the next year increase slightly to 3%--but this number has held relatively steady for the past 12 months in the survey. Expectations that unemployment will rise over the next year decline by 0.6 percentage points to 34%, showing optimism. On the other hand, the mean perceived probability of losing one's job over the next year increases by 2.3 percentage points, to 14.2%, a more downbeat result. But finally, there was also an increase in the perceived probability of finding a new job in the next three months if one lost one's current job. That figure rises by 1.3 percentage points to 51.5%.(matt.grossman@wsj.com, @mattgrossman)

1100 ET - The New York Fed's consumer survey's inflation-expectations gauge holds steady at a modest level. Consumers in the survey see inflation of 3% over the next one and three years, unchanged from the previous reading. That is good news as another major consumer survey, run by the University of Michigan, has showed a pronounced uptick in inflation expectations around the start of the second Trump administration. In the NY Fed survey, there was a slight increase of 0.3 percentage point in consumers' five-year inflation expectations--which also now stand at 3%. (matt.grossman@wsj.com; @mattgrossman)

1047 ET - Biotechnology is likely to stay resilient despite tariffs, Benchmark analyst Bruce Jackson expects. While development costs may rise, there could be more mergers and acquisitions in the industry if there is less scrutiny from the Federal Trade Commission under the Trump administration. Pharma companies looking to bolster pipelines could also drive merger activity. The metabolic, central nervous system and oncology biotech industries are expected to grow while vaccines and rare diseases are more likely to face challenges. (katherine.hamilton@wsj.com)

1043 ET - Tariffs could lead to shortages and higher prices for pharmaceuticals and medical devices, Benchmark analyst Bruce Jackson says. Trump has said his tariffs are intended to bring jobs back to the U.S., but pharmaceutical companies may be hesitant to build manufacturing capacity domestically, especially in areas where profit margins are thin, like generic drugs and hospital supplies, Jackson says. It could also take up to two years to start making medical equipment in the U.S., and up to five years to launch drug manufacturing facilities, Jackson adds. (katherine.hamilton@wsj.com)

1014 ET - Hydro One's rich valuation keeps BofA Securities bearish on the stock, despite praise for the Canadian power company. BofA reinstates coverage with an underperform call and C$44 price target, noting the current valuation premium based on expected 2026 EPS is 47% higher than the next-highest premium of the companies it covers. It says catalysts for any multiple expansion from here are further-dated than its 12-month price objective. Still, BofA argues Hydro One is well run and has among the strongest earnings and rate base growth visibility in the sector. Shares now down 0.6% at C$45.29. (robb.stewart@wsj.com)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250210008730:0/)
