---
title: "DSM-firmenich Launches 1 Billion Euros Share Buyback as Earnings Rise"
date: "2025-02-13 14:44:00"
summary: "By Adam WhittakerDSM-firmenich launched a 1 billion euro ($1.04 billion) buyback scheme and said it was fully on-track to meet its mid-term ambitions as merger synergies boosted its results.The nutrition, health and bioscience company on Thursday said fourth-quarter adjusted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization rose to 601 million..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Adam Whittaker

DSM-firmenich launched a 1 billion euro ($1.04 billion) buyback scheme and said it was fully on-track to meet its mid-term ambitions as merger synergies boosted its results.

The nutrition, health and bioscience company on Thursday said fourth-quarter adjusted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization rose to 601 million euros ($624 million), from 439 million euros it reported for the same period a year prior. The result compares with 511 million euros analysts had expected according to a Vara Research compiled consensus.

The company said it would buy 1 billion euros worth of shares starting in the second quarter of 2025. It will initially buy 500 million euros before buying more upon completing the sale of its stake in the Feed Enzymes Alliance. It aims to complete the buyback in the second quarter of 2026, it said.

Fourth-quarter sales increased to 3.26 billion euros, marginally missing the 3.27 billion euros analysts had expected.

For the full year, core adjusted net profit--which strips out exceptional and other one-off items--on a pro forma basis rose 849 million euros, from 555 million euros in 2023.

For 2025, the company is targeting an adjusted Ebitda of at least 2.4 billion euros.

DSM-firmenich declared a stable dividend of 2.50 euros per share.

Write to Adam Whittaker at adam.whittaker@wsj.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250213002103:0-dsm-firmenich-launches-1-billion-euros-share-buyback-as-earnings-rise/)
