---
title: "Week Ahead for FX, Bonds: U.S. Inflation Data, Fed Comments in Focus"
date: "2025-02-10 05:00:00"
summary: "Below are the most important global events likely to affect FX and bond markets in the coming week starting Feb. 10.U.S. inflation data plus comments from Federal Reserve Chair Jerome Powell could be key for determining the path for U.S. interest rates. Meanwhile, further news from the Trump administration regarding..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Below are the most important global events likely to affect FX and bond markets in the coming week starting Feb. 10.

U.S. inflation data plus comments from Federal Reserve Chair Jerome Powell could be key for determining the path for U.S. interest rates. Meanwhile, further news from the Trump administration regarding plans for tariffs will continue to attract close attention.

Focus will also center on inflation data from China, alongside economic data releases from Japan and figures on U.K. gross domestic product.

U.S.

U.S. inflation data on Wednesday could be a key signal for when U.S. interest rates are next likely to be cut, if at all. Signs of persistent inflation would add to speculation that rates are likely to stay on hold over the coming months.

Fed Chair Powell's monetary-policy testimony on Tuesday to the Senate Banking Committee, and on Wednesday to the House Financial Services Committee, will also be watched closely for clues on the rate outlook. The Fed left interest rates on hold at its January meeting and signaled that it was in no hurry to cut rates further.

With recent jobs data pointing to a robust labor market, it is likely that the Fed will remain on the sidelines for now, with a prolonged pause in the easing cycle looking likely, said Michael Brown, senior strategist at Pepperstone in a note.

U.S. money markets are pricing in a likely--but not certain--rate cut in July.

Focus will also center on any further news regarding President Trump's tariff policies. Plans for hefty tariffs on Canada and Mexico were delayed for one month but tariffs on China went ahead. Trump's focus is now expected to switch to the European Union and possibly other countries.

Tariffs have a potential impact on monetary policy given that they are considered inflationary.

U.S. retail sales and industrial production data for January could give important information about how robust the economy is. Producer prices data for January on Thursday will give an indication of pipeline inflationary pressures, while weekly jobless claims are due Thursday.

Additionally, the Trump administration could outline proposals for ending Russia's war against Ukraine.

The Treasury will sell $58 billion in three-year notes on Tuesday, $42 billion in 10-year notes on Wednesday and $25 billion in 30-year bonds on Thursday.

EUROZONE

The week ahead is quiet for the eurozone, with data likely to give further evidence of a weak economy and likely further interest-rate cuts ahead.

Eurozone industrial production data for December are due Thursday, followed by fourth-quarter gross domestic product data on Friday. French unemployment data are scheduled for Tuesday and final German inflation figures for January will be released Thursday.

Bond issuance includes Germany selling 5 billion euros in the April 2030-dated Bobl on Tuesday, as well as a combined 2.5 billion euros in 2050- and 2054-dated Bunds on Wednesday. Other auctions will be held in the Netherlands on Tuesday, Portugal and Greece on Wednesday and Italy on Thursday.

U.K.

U.K. gross domestic product data for December and the fourth quarter on Thursday will be watched closely given the recent focus on the U.K.'s stuttering economy.

Signs of economic weakness could add to prospects of further interest-rate cuts by the Bank of England, although concerns about inflation remain.

"This [GDP] release takes on added focus given disappointing outturns in recent months that consequently have given rise to fears over possible stagflation," said Investec economist Ryan Djajasaputra in a note.

The Bank of England cut interest rates by 25 basis points in a recent decision, with two out of nine policymakers favoring a larger 50 basis-point reduction. U.K. money markets currently price in a 20% chance of a follow-up rate cut in March.

The U.K. plans to launch a new March 2035 gilt via syndication on the week starting on Feb. 10, and to sell March 2045 index-linked gilt on Wednesday.

SWITZERLAND

Swiss inflation data for January are due Thursday. If this confirms a benign inflation outlook it could add to prospects of another interest-rate cut by the Swiss National Bank in March.

Switzerland will hold a bond auction on Wednesday.

SCANDINAVIA

Norwegian inflation data for January are due Monday, followed by fourth-quarter gross domestic product data Tuesday.

Sweden will hold a bond auction on Wednesday.

CHINA

China's first set of inflation prints for 2025 are the main event in an otherwise quiet period for economic data releases.

Markets will be looking at the data due over the weekend for signs of improving consumer demand and stronger factory-gate prices.

A poll of economists by The Wall Street Journal projects that the consumer price index rose 0.4% on the year in January, picking up from a 0.1% increase in December. Though Lunar New Year distortions will be present, signs of stronger demand will be viewed positively. Factory-gate prices are expected to have narrowed their decline to 2.2% on year in January, improving from December's 2.3% drop, according to the poll.

Focus will also be on any trade-related announcement from Beijing as the tit-for-tat tariffs conflict with the U.S. gets underway. The relatively measured 10% tariff levied by the Trump administration and China's targeted response have raised tentative hopes that there is room for a deal between the two sides. But with uncertainty high, analysts caution against being too optimistic.

S&P Global Ratings economists' observation is that the U.S. administration is in deal-making mode "and therefore treats a wide swathe of cross-border economic relations as more or less continuously negotiable." That means that any deal or agreement could be reopened at any time, and with the administration lacking clear objectives for implementing tariffs, uncertainty looks set to remain high, they said.

INDIA

On Wednesday, India's January inflation print will likely show a cooling in price pressures, justifying the central bank's decision to cut rates for the first time in nearly five years.

ANZ's Jennifer Kusuma expects headline inflation to have eased toward the midpoint of the central bank's target range in January. The senior rates strategist pencils in a drop to 4.4% from December's 5.2%, thanks to easing food and vegetable prices. ANZ expects the central bank to deliver three rate cuts this year, though that call will depend on the trajectory of the economy and the rupee.

The Reserve Bank of India sees food inflation pressures softening in the coming months, but warns that continued volatility in energy prices and adverse weather conditions pose upside risks to prices.

Trade numbers due Friday, Feb. 14, will also be closely watched, as investors eye the impact of U.S.-instigated tariffs.

A global trade war could significantly affect India's growth, inflation and trade, but there is still much uncertainty on what the extent of the impact would be, said Rajani Sinha, chief economist at CareEdge.

PHILIPPINES

The Philippine central bank will make its interest rate decision Thursday, where it could continue delivering cuts as economic growth slows.

UOB economist Jasrine Loke expects Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas to continue easing with another 25-basis-point rate cut, noting recent comments from Gov. Eli Remolona hinting that a cut is on the table. However, a more cautious Federal Reserve and upside risks to inflation could raise the odds for a shallower rate-easing outlook ahead, Loke added.

Economists at Barclays continue to see ample space for the central bank to support lackluster growth, citing a favorable inflation backdrop and comfortable interest-rate differentials.

Fourth-quarter growth data shows the need for more and faster cuts, economist Shreya Sodhani says, highlighting the clear impact of still-restrictive monetary policy on private consumption and investment.

"Potential U.S. trade tariffs, if implemented, could also weigh on growth and act as a drag on inflation, likely pushing the BSP to ease as they did during the 2019 tariff episode," she said. Still, Barclays notes a risk that the bank could ease only once more after February.

SINGAPORE

A flurry of data recapping the Singapore economy's performance in 2024 is due on Friday.

Revised figures will likely reaffirm that the economy grew by 4.3% on year in the fourth quarter of 2024 and 4.0% for the full year. The central bank expects Singapore's GDP growth to moderate this year as shifts in global trade policies could weigh on manufacturing and trade-related services sectors.

A review of the city-state's trade performance will also be unveiled on Friday, which will likely show that exports managed to return to growth in 2024 after contracting in 2023.

Non-oil domestic exports continued to rebound in December, with the frontloading of shipments likely lending a boost as companies look to get ahead of U.S. tariffs.

Enterprise Singapore has projected 2024 exports growth at around 1.0%.

* Any references to days are in local times.

* Additional reporting Amanda Lee, Ronnie Harui, Kimberley Kao, James Glynn, Grace Zhu, Emese Bartha and Miriam Mukuru

Write to Jessica Fleetham at jessica.fleetham@wsj.com and Fabiana Negrin Ochoa at fabiana.negrinochoa@wsj.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250209000555:0/)
