---
title: "Chinese Auto Sales Fell in January on Subdued Demand"
date: "2025-02-11 17:02:00"
summary: "By Jiahui HuangChina's vehicle sales fell in January, pressured by subdued demand and a front-loading effect from the previous month.Retail sales of passenger cars fell 12.1% to 1.79 million vehicles in January from a year earlier, the China Passenger Car Association said Tuesday. Sales declined 32% from January, remaining at..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Jiahui Huang

China's vehicle sales fell in January, pressured by subdued demand and a front-loading effect from the previous month.

Retail sales of passenger cars fell 12.1% to 1.79 million vehicles in January from a year earlier, the China Passenger Car Association said Tuesday. Sales declined 32% from January, remaining at historically low levels, the CPCA added.

The relatively sluggish sales in January was widely expected, as uncertainties lingered over the government's subsidies program being extended, resulting in consumers making their purchases before the end of the year. That front-loading effect led to the auto industry seeing weaker demand for January, CPCA noted.

Despite a slow start to the month, CPCA sees strong potential for the nation's auto industry for robust sales for the rest of 2025.

The CPCA maintained a positive outlook for the EV sector, predicting continued sales growth for the year, citing increased sales from electric vehicles and hybrid cars. The extended replacement subsidies will also likely provide further support, they said.

Retail sales of new-energy cars, a category in China that refers mainly to battery-electric vehicles and plug-in hybrids, rose 10.5% to 744,000 units in January, the CPCA said.

China exported 380,000 passenger cars in January, up 3% from a year ago and down 6% from December. Exports of NEVs rose 29.4% from a year earlier.

Looking ahead, the CPCA predicts a total of 23.4 million retail sales of passenger cars in 2025, 2% higher than for 2024. The CPCA forecasts NEV retail sales to rise 20% to 13.3 million units, making up 57% of all passenger-vehicle sales for the year.

Looking ahead, the auto market is expected to see some recovery in February on relatively stronger demand after the Lunar New Year holiday, the CPCA noted.

Tesla delivered 63,238 cars made at its Shanghai plant to Chinese buyers, and exported 29,535 units.

Write to Jiahui Huang at jiahui.huang@wsj.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250211001456:0/)
