---
title: "MGP Ingredients to Report Fourth Quarter 2024 Financial Results on Wednesday, February 26, 2025"
date: "2025-02-13 07:24:00"
summary: "MGP Ingredients to Report Fourth Quarter 2024 Financial Results on Wednesday, February 26, 2025ATCHISON, Kan.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--February 12, 2025--MGP Ingredients, Inc. , a leading provider of branded and distilled spirits and food ingredient solutions, today announced that it will hold a conference call/webcast to discuss results for the fourth quarter and..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

MGP Ingredients to Report Fourth Quarter 2024 Financial Results on Wednesday, February 26, 2025

ATCHISON, Kan.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--February 12, 2025--

MGP Ingredients, Inc. , a leading provider of branded and distilled spirits and food ingredient solutions, today announced that it will hold a conference call/webcast to discuss results for the fourth quarter and full year ended December 31, 2024, on Wednesday, February 26, at 10 a.m. ET. The company expects to release its financial results before the markets open.

Management on the call will include Brandon Gall, Interim President and CEO, and CFO. A webcast will be available at the "News and Events" section of the company's Investor Relations website at ir.mgpingredients.com/news-events. Investors can also dial 844-308-6398 (domestic) or 412-717-9605 (international) to listen to the conference call.

A replay will be available on the company's website after the call concludes.

About MGP Ingredients, Inc.

MGP Ingredients, Inc. is a leading producer of premium distilled spirits, branded spirits, and food ingredient solutions. Since 1941, we have combined our expertise and energy aimed at formulating excellence, bringing product ideas to life collaboratively with our customers.

As one of the largest distillers in the U.S., MGP's offerings include bourbon and rye whiskeys, gins, and vodkas, which are created at the intersection of science and imagination, for customers of all sizes, from crafts to multinational brands. With distilleries in Kentucky and Indiana, and bottling operations in Missouri, Ohio, and Northern Ireland, MGP has the infrastructure and expertise to create on any scale.

MGP's branded spirits portfolio covers a wide spectrum of brands in every segment, including iconic brands from Luxco, which was founded in 1958 by the Lux Family. Luxco is a leading producer, supplier, importer, and bottler of beverage alcohol products. Our branded spirits mission is to meet the needs and exceed the expectations of consumers, associates, and business partners. Luxco's award-winning spirits portfolio includes well-known brands from four distilleries: Bardstown, Kentucky-based Lux Row Distillers, home of Ezra Brooks, Rebel, Blood Oath, David Nicholson, and Daviess County; Lebanon, Kentucky-based Limestone Branch Distillery, maker of Yellowstone Kentucky Straight Bourbon Whiskey, Minor Case Straight Rye Whiskey, and Bowling & Burch Gin; Jalisco, Mexico-based Destiladora González Lux, producer of 100% agave tequilas, El Mayor, Exotico, and Dos Primos; and the historic Ross & Squibb Distillery in Lawrenceburg, Indiana, where Penelope Bourbon, Remus Straight Bourbon Whiskey, and Rossville Union Straight Rye Whiskey are produced. The innovative and high-quality brand portfolio also includes Everclear Grain Alcohol, Pearl Vodka, Green Hat Gin, Saint Brendan's Irish Cream, The Quiet Man Irish Whiskey, and other well-recognized brands.

In addition, our Ingredient Solutions segment offers specialty proteins and starches that help customers harness the power of plants and provide a host of functional, nutritional, and sensory benefits for a wide range of food products.

The transformation of American grain into something more is in the soul of our people, products, and history. We're devoted to unlocking the creative potential of this extraordinary resource. For more information, visit mgpingredients.com.

View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20250212865438/en/

CONTACT: For More Information

Investors:

Amit Sharma

amit.sharma@mgpingredients.com

Media:

Patrick Barry

patrick@byrnepr.net

314-540-3865

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250212016382:0/)
