---
title: "The Stock Market Is Whipsawed by Rapid-Fire News Events. Don't Let It Make Your Head Spin. — Barrons.com"
date: "2025-02-08 06:09:00"
summary: "By Avi SalzmanThe outlook for stocks changes almost every day in Trump World, and sometimes it changes in a matter of hours. So far, that hasn't been a recipe for success in the stock market, which is up less than 2% from where it was the day after Donald Trump..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Avi Salzman

The outlook for stocks changes almost every day in Trump World, and sometimes it changes in a matter of hours. So far, that hasn't been a recipe for success in the stock market, which is up less than 2% from where it was the day after Donald Trump won the election.

Going nowhere seems to be a running theme. The S&P 500 index dipped 0.2% this past week, while the Dow Jones Industrial Average and the Nasdaq Composite both fell 0.5%.

The market seemed unaffected by some of the most newsworthy announcements from the new administration, including the dismantling of the U.S. Agency for International Development, and Trump's plan for the U.S. to occupy and rebuild Gaza. But tariff news definitely shook investors.

The week started with tariff threats against Canada and Mexico, and ended with the president promising reciprocal tariffs this coming week against countries that impose levies on U.S. goods. Both news events caused stocks to drop — though they rebounded this past Monday after the Canadian and Mexican tariffs were delayed.

"Headline whipsaws have become commonplace since the start of the year, and are a growing danger for investors," writes Mike O'Rourke, chief market strategist at JonesTrading. Investors are getting "chopped up by chasing headlines."

O'Rourke thinks it often makes sense for investors to "fade" breaking news, instead of trying to navigate it as it unfolds. Ignoring Trump's early moves is also an option. But the news outside of the administration isn't particularly bullish right now either.

In between the tariff talk, corporate and economic news was mostly downbeat: Amazon.com and Alphabet announced disappointing guidance, and monthly jobs numbers came in slightly weaker than expected.

The jobs report showed that wages are rising faster than analysts had expected. That's a good thing for the overall economy, and may reflect the fact that 21 states boosted their minimum wage at the start of the year, impacting 9 million people, according to Bankrate. But it could be a bad thing for inflation. The bond market appears to be pricing in more inflation ahead. The yield on the 10-year Treasury note was back up to 4.5% on Friday, after falling to 4.4% on Wednesday.

Rising rates could throttle interest-rate sensitive areas of the economy like the housing market, which helps explain why the SPDR S&P Homebuilders exchange-traded fund is down 8% since the election.

What's more, given the news, the Federal Reserve is increasingly unlikely to lower interest rates soon. "Either way you spin it, the Fed should feel quite cozy sitting tight the rest of winter," wrote Charlie Ripley, senior investment strategist at Allianz Investment Management.

Just don't expect investors to feel the same way.

Write to Avi Salzman at avi.salzman@barrons.com

This content was created by Barron's, which is operated by Dow Jones & Co. Barron's is published independently from Dow Jones Newswires and The Wall Street Journal.

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250207011039:0/)
