---
title: "News Highlights: Top Company News of the Day - Tuesday at 3 PM ET"
date: "2025-02-12 04:00:00"
summary: "Shopify Profit Doubles After Revenue Surges During HolidaysThe results reflect that Shopify's platform, which provides the backbone for online storefronts, is playing a critical, if unseen to consumers, role to a wider swath of ecommerce transactions.Intel Stock Soars After JD Vance Vows AI Chips Will Be Made in U.S.The vice..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

**Shopify Profit Doubles After Revenue Surges During Holidays**

The results reflect that Shopify's platform, which provides the backbone for online storefronts, is playing a critical, if unseen to consumers, role to a wider swath of ecommerce transactions.

**Intel Stock Soars After JD Vance Vows AI Chips Will Be Made in U.S.**

The vice president said excessive regulation or an overemphasis on artificial-intelligence safety could cripple the technology just as it is poised to take off.

**Musk's $97.4 Billion OpenAI Bid Piles Pressure on Sam Altman**

The unsolicited offer for the assets of OpenAI could end up costing CEO Sam Altman, whether he takes it or not.

**Coca-Cola Stock Rises After Earnings. Here's What Got the Market Excited.**

Fourth-quarter earnings and revenue at the beverage giant top Wall Street expectations.

**Travelers Sees $1.7 Billion Pretax Catastrophe Losses From California Wildfires**

The devastating wildfires that struck southern California in January could cost the insurance industry overall about $30 billion, according to analyst estimates.

**Elliott Builds Over $2.5 Billion Stake in Phillips 66**

The activist investor plans to push the oil refiner to consider selling or spinning off its energy-transportation business.

**DuPont Stock Rises on Strong Earnings and Outlook**

DuPont reports fourth-quarter adjusted earnings per share of $1.13 from sales of $3.1 billion. Wall Street was looking for profit of 98 cents a share and sales of $3.1 billion.

**ArcelorMittal Considers Moving Support Activities to India to Cut Costs**

The Luxembourg-based steelmaker said that it discussed the proposal at a meeting with its European works council, a body representing employees, as part of its efforts to address major issues that the company said threaten the future of steelmaking on the continent.

**Humana Stock Slides Despite Solid Quarter Amid Weak Forecast**

The company also said it expects individual Medicare Advantage membership to drop 10% in 2025.

**WK Kellogg's sales fall short as consumers seek value and as Special K loses share**

WK Kellogg Co.'s stock fell 1.8% Tuesday after the breakfast-cereal company's fourth-quarter adjusted profit swept past estimates but failed to offset a sales miss, as the company continues to grapple with cash-strapped consumers.

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250211009039:0/)
