---
title: "Financial Stocks Are on Fire. It Could Be Just the Start. — Barrons.com"
date: "2025-02-12 03:49:00"
summary: "By Paul R. La MonicaBank stocks are off to an impressive start to the year, extending their solid gains from 2024. The SPDR S&amp;P Bank and Financial Select Sector SPDR exchange-traded funds are both up more than 6% already in 2025.But this could be just the beginning of a long-term..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Paul R. La Monica

Bank stocks are off to an impressive start to the year, extending their solid gains from 2024. The SPDR S&P Bank and Financial Select Sector SPDR exchange-traded funds are both up more than 6% already in 2025.

But this could be just the beginning of a long-term rally, fueled by factors ranging from lenders' low valuations to hopes for a friendlier regulatory environment and more merger activity, to declining yields on long-term debt. Despite the recent gains, the SPDR S&P Bank ETF has only recently eclipsed the record highs it reached in 2007, just before the start of the 2008-2009 financial crisis.

Many top bank stocks, including Citigroup, Truist, Bank of New York Mellon, and KeyCorp, are still reasonably valued, trading at price-to-earnings ratios in the low-to-mid double digits. That is a steep discount to about 22 times for the S&P 500, which has been lifted to near new highs by the Magnificent Seven and other tech and momentum stocks.

Investors seem to recognize that the sector is a bargain and have flocked to the financials in recent weeks. Jill Carey Hall, an equity and quantitative strategist for BofA Securities, said in a report Tuesday that the firm had the second-largest amount of inflows ever into financial stocks from its clients last week. The only time the tide of cash was deeper was during a week in May 2009, just after bank stocks hit rock bottom following the collapses of Bear Stearns, Lehman Brothers, Washington Mutual, Wachovia, and others in 2008.

Banks have also gotten a boost from the expectation that "animal spirits" will be unleashed by President Donald Trump and the Republican-led Congress. Investors are betting on less stringent regulations and a pickup in merger activity and initial public offerings. That should boost fee income for the likes of JPMorgan Chase, Goldman Sachs, Morgan Stanley, and other Wall Street powerhouses.

Solid fourth-quarter earnings from many banks have helped too.

"Many analysts agree that the incoming administration could create a business landscape that is less regulated and more conducive to mergers & acquisition activity," said Kyle Guske II, senior investment analyst with New Constructs, a research firm, in a report. "Banks easily surpassed earnings estimates when they kicked off earnings season, and if such a landscape does materialize, such beats could be the beginning of a banking boom."

The banks themselves may take part in the feeding frenzy. Eleven relatively small bank mergers worth about $678 million were announced in January, according to data from S&P Global Market Intelligence. Analysts at S&P said the total, roughly in line with the amount seen at the start of 2024, was "subdued," but said there are "expectations for a sharp rebound in M&A activity."

Financials are also benefiting from the fact that banks, asset management firms, and insurers tend to pay healthy dividends, a plus because longer-term bond yields have started to decline a bit in the past month. U.S. Bancorp, T. Rowe Price, Prudential Financial and Invesco all pay dividends that yield more than 4%, for example.

So even though bank stocks have enjoyed a fair amount of momentum lately, there are plenty of reasons why top financials could keep rallying for the foreseeable future.

Write to Paul R. La Monica at paul.lamonica@barrons.com

This content was created by Barron's, which is operated by Dow Jones & Co. Barron's is published independently from Dow Jones Newswires and The Wall Street Journal.

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250211008964:0/)
