---
title: "News Highlights: Top Energy News of the Day - Wednesday at 11 AM ET"
date: "2025-02-13 00:15:00"
summary: "Oil prices drop after industry data shows big rise in U.S. crude inventoriesOil futures fell Wednesday, threatening to end a three-day winning streak, after industry data showed a large rise in U.S. crude inventories.OPEC Sticks to Oil-Demand View, Flags U.S. Trade Policy RisksThe cartel stuck to its oil-demand forecast after..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

**Oil prices drop after industry data shows big rise in U.S. crude inventories**

Oil futures fell Wednesday, threatening to end a three-day winning streak, after industry data showed a large rise in U.S. crude inventories.

**OPEC Sticks to Oil-Demand View, Flags U.S. Trade Policy Risks**

The cartel stuck to its oil-demand forecast after reaffirming plans to gradually hike output from April, but said Trump's trade policy was injecting a dose of uncertainty into markets.

**Siemens Energy Net Profit Falls; Revenue, Order Backlog Rise**

The Munich-based company said net profit fell but revenue rose, as its order backlog continued to increase.

**Berkshire Buys More Occidental Stock. It Now Holds a $12.9 Billion Stake.**

Berkshire likely is losing money on its Occidental stake with Barron's estimating its cost in the low $50s.

**BP Touts 'New Beginning,' Fundamental Change in Strategy**

BP said profit fell more than expected and that it would reset its strategy, days after reports that activist hedge fund Elliott Management is pushing for change at the company.

**Elliott Builds Over $2.5 Billion Stake in Phillips 66**

The activist investor plans to push the oil refiner to consider selling or spinning off its energy-transportation business.

**Energy & Utilities Roundup: Market Talk**

Find insight on European utilities, crude futures, BP and more in the latest Market Talks covering energy and utilities.

**Elliott Takes Stake in Struggling Oil Giant BP**

The activist hedge fund is encouraging BP to consider more dramatic moves to restore the once venerable company's fortunes.

**Behind the Oil Industry's Biggest Divorce: Chevron Versus California**

The energy giant sank the state's first successful oil well, kicking off a boom that powered California's economy for more than a century. Goodwill has since gone dry.

**Garcia's Take: TPG's Altus Power Bet May Benefit From Time Alone**

Time may be on TPG's side in its acquisition of Altus Power, as more clarity about President Trump's clean-energy policies down the road may lift the value of renewable-power assets depressed by fears he might revoke tax credits for the sector.

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250212009862:0-news-highlights-top-energy-news-of-the-day-wednesday-at-11-am-et/)
