---
title: "Newell Brands Forecasts Drop in 2025 Sales, Hitting Shares — 2nd Update"
date: "2025-02-08 04:53:00"
summary: "By Dean SealNewell Brands lost a quarter of its market value after the company behind Crock-Pot, Mr. Coffee and Elmer's glue forecast a drop in sales this year and a wider-than-expected loss in the current quarter.The Atlanta consumer-goods company Friday said it expects 2025 sales to slip by 2% to..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Dean Seal

Newell Brands lost a quarter of its market value after the company behind Crock-Pot, Mr. Coffee and Elmer's glue forecast a drop in sales this year and a wider-than-expected loss in the current quarter.

The Atlanta consumer-goods company Friday said it expects 2025 sales to slip by 2% to 4%, and projects an adjusted loss--which strips out certain one-time items--of 6 to 9 cents in the current quarter. Analysts polled by FactSet had forecast rughly flat sales from last year, and a first-quarter adjusted profit of 3 cents a share. o

The company said it expected sales to decline this year as lower-income consumers remain under pressure from the past years' inflation, and as the dollar has strengthened and tax, tariff and trade policies in the U.S. are fluid. In response, Newell said it planned to progress with its turnaround plan and would launch and invest in more mid- and high-price products across its business.

"While much work remains and the macroeconomic backdrop is still uncertain, we are laser focused on returning the company to sustainable top line growth," Chief Executive Chris Peterson said on a call with analysts.

Shares of Newell, whose brands also include Sharpie pens, Rubbermaid storage products and Marmot outdoor gear, recently were down 26% at $7.17. The stock is down about 38% from its 52-week high hit in December, yet remains up about 5.6% from a year ago.

"I've covered consumer stocks for nearly 20 years, and this might be the biggest overreaction I've ever seen," said Canaccord analyst Brian McNamara.

The market may have been spooked by the word "preliminary" in the guidance, when it was simply an acknowledgment that the situation with tariffs was fluid, McNamara said. Newell shouldn't be lumped in the "tariff risk camp," he added, since the company's current China-sourcing exposure is 15%, with 50% or more domestic manufacturing.

For the first quarter, the company expects a 5% to 8% decline in sales, a bigger drop than the 3.4% decrease forecasts by analysts.

The company also said it expected its adjusted earnings for the full year to come in at 70 cents to 76 cents a share. Analysts had been projecting 75 cents a share.

The outlook came as the company reported a fourth-quarter loss of $54 million, or 13 cents a share, narrowing than the loss of $86 million, or 21 cents a share, a year earlier.

In the last three months of 2024, gross margin widened on productivity savings and higher prices, which more than offset lower sales volumes, inflation and the stronger dollar.

Stripping out restructuring costs and other one-time items, adjusted earnings were 16 cents a share, beating analysts' average forecast for 14 cents a share. Fourth-quarter sales fell 6.1% to $1.95 billion, just below analyst forecasts for $1.96 billion.

Core sales, an adjusted revenue metric, were down 3%. Unfavorable foreign -currency translation and business exits accounted for the rest of the shortfall.

Newell said it priced products in its international markets to offset inflation and currency movements, which supported the company's core sales.

Write to Dean Seal at dean.seal@wsj.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250207009904:0/)
