---
title: "Canada's Trudeau Says Trump Might Be Serious About 51st State"
date: "2025-02-08 02:40:00"
summary: "By Paul Vieira and Vipal MongaTORONTO--President Donald Trump might be serious about annexing Canada because he's keen to control the country's natural resources, Prime Minister Justin Trudeau told business leaders Friday.His comments were made during a closed-door session at an economic summit his office organized in Toronto, featuring business and..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Paul Vieira and Vipal Monga

TORONTO--President Donald Trump might be serious about annexing Canada because he's keen to control the country's natural resources, Prime Minister Justin Trudeau told business leaders Friday.

His comments were made during a closed-door session at an economic summit his office organized in Toronto, featuring business and labor leaders.

According to people who were present for the closed-door remarks, Trudeau said he didn't believe Trump was joking about wanting to annex Canada, citing the country's minerals and energy resources.

The remarks were earlier reported by The Toronto Star. Trudeau spoke earlier while media were present, and said now was the time for lawmakers and business leaders to discuss strategies to make the economy more resilient.

Trump had threatened a 25% tariff on all nonenergy Canada imports, alongside a 10% tariff on energy imports which incorporates critical minerals, starting on Feb. 4, unless Ottawa took efforts to fortify its border security and deter fentanyl trafficking. Trump has also mused about using economic force to coerce Canada to become the 51st state.

Previously, Canadian officials said Trump was joking when musing about Canada as a 51st state.

The U.S. granted Canada a 30-day reprieve from a 25% tariff this week, giving Canada until early March to show progress on the border front.

Write to Paul Vieira at paul.vieira@wsj.com and Vipal Monga at Vipal.monga@wsj.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250207009057:0/)
