---
title: "Global Equities Roundup: Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-13 11:11:00"
summary: "The latest Market Talks covering Equities. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.0311 GMT - The 2025 outlook for Shakey's Pizza Asia Ventures still seems positive, Maybank Securities' Daphne Sze says in a research report. This year's earnings drivers for the Philippine full-service restaurant chain operator include forecast..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The latest Market Talks covering Equities. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.

0311 GMT - The 2025 outlook for Shakey's Pizza Asia Ventures still seems positive, Maybank Securities' Daphne Sze says in a research report. This year's earnings drivers for the Philippine full-service restaurant chain operator include forecast stable same-store-sales growth of 2%, the addition of 176 new stores and cost savings, the analyst says. The brokerage reiterates the stock's buy rating owing to a potential recovery of discretionary spending and purchasing power in the Philippines as inflation slows. However, the brokerage trims the target price to PHP10.00 from PHP12.00 to reflect recent consumer weakness in the Philippines. Shares are 1.0% lower at PHP7.90. (ronnie.harui@wsj.com)

0310 GMT - Geely's new Galaxy L6 sedan could become a solid driver for the company's Galaxy brand to reach its 1.0 million unit sales target this year, Deutsche Bank analyst Bin Wang writes in a note. The company may launch five to six products under the Galaxy brand this year, he notes. Geely plans to host an "AI intelligent technology" event in March, to showcase its strategy on autonomous driving, and other tech features. DeepSeek's R1 model has significantly improved the AI assistant end-user experience. This could boost accuracy for automotive mobility cases and support Geely's vehicle sales, he adds. DB maintains a buy rating and HK$19.00 target price for the stock, which is last at HK$17.08.(jiahui.huang@wsj.com; @ivy\_jiahuihuang)

0243 GMT - Bank Tabungan Negara (Persero) is likely to continue to face headwinds this year, following weaker-than-expected results last year, Bahana Sekuritas analysts say in a research report. A tightening liquidity environment in Indonesia has put pressure on the profitability of major banks, the analysts note. The Indonesian bank may also see higher operating expenditures and slower loan growth this year, with management's loan-growth guidance lowered to 7%-8% for 2025 from 10%-11% for 2024, the analysts say. The brokerage cuts the stock's target price to IDR1,000.00 from IDR1,225.00 with an unchanged hold rating. Shares are 1.1% higher at IDR940.00. (ronnie.harui@wsj.com)

0232 GMT - Chinese authorities' reported bailout plan to help China Vanke could bolster its long-term viability, Daiwa's William Wu says in a note. Beijing is considering a 50 billion yuan funding to help Vanke repay debt, according to a media report, after the developer's largest shareholder, Shenzhen Metro, offered a 2.8 billion yuan loan earlier this week. While the Shenzhen Metro loan should help Vanke cover the repayment of a bond maturing Feb. 16, it still has another 2 billion yuan of public debt due Feb. 25, the analyst says. "If the bailout plan turns out to be as reported, we expect Vanke to receive funding support in coming weeks." The funding plan wouldn't only alleviate Vanke's near-term credit risks but also signify its ties with the state despite not being fully government-owned, Wu adds. H shares fall 4.9% to HK$6.04. (sherry.qin@wsj.com)

0227 GMT - Heineken Malaysia's 2025 earnings outlook could remain strong, driven by product innovations and advertising and promotion investments in core brands, Maybank IB analyst Jade Tam says in a note. The brewer may benefit from stronger sales momentum amid higher inbound visitors, but risks include geopolitical uncertainties and forex volatility, she reckons. Tam raises Heineken's 2025-2026 earnings forecasts by 9% and 8%, respectively, on expected higher margins. Maybank raises Heineken's target price to MYR33.00 from MYR30.20 and keeps a buy rating on the stock, which is 4.8% higher at MYR26.00. (yingxian.wong@wsj.com)

0218 GMT - Elite UK REIT's distribution per unit is expected to return to a growth trajectory, according to DBS Group Research analysts, raising the REIT's rating to buy from hold and increasing its target price to GBP0.36 from GBP0.25. The REIT is projected to post DPU growth over next two years, the analysts say, citing wider net property income margins primarily due to lower vacancy costs and higher interest savings. In addition, the REIT plans to explore repurposing some of its vacant assets for alternative uses, such as student accommodation, which is currently undersupplied in the U.K. This presents an opportunity for the REIT to capitalize on emerging trends in the living sector, the analysts add. Units are unchanged at GBP0.31. (ronnie.harui@wsj.com)

0206 GMT - 99 Speed Mart Retail could continue expanding its market share by displacing independent mini-market players in Malaysia, say Citi analysts in a note. The mini-market chain's footprint is at 12% and it is likely to open distribution centers along the east of Malaysia, they write. "Based on [99 Speed Mart Retail's] plan to increase its store count by 250 outlets annually, it would take the company up to end-2027 before cannibalization begins," the analysts say. Citi initiates coverage of the stock with a buy/high risk rating and a target price of MYR2.90. Shares are 0.4% lower at MYR2.25. (amanda.lee@wsj.com)

0155 GMT - Hong Leong Bank's 1H FY2025 net profit may rise by mid-to-high single digits on year, driven by strong income growth and cost discipline, though contributions from its associate, Bank of Chengdu, may soften amid China's policy rate cuts, RHB IB analysts say. Nabil Thoo and David Chong say the lender is likely to see robust income growth in 2Q FY2025, with net interest income holding steady. Loan growth may exceed 6%-7% guidance as sequentially weaker ringgit could lead to forex gains, they add. The analysts expect non-interest income for 2Q could also be strong, particularly from treasury and markets income amid a conducive trading environment. RHB maintains a buy rating on Hong Leong Bank and keeps target price at MYR26.60. Shares are 0.5% lower at MYR20.54. (yingxian.wong@wsj.com)

0148 GMT - IRPC could incur more impairments on its investment in Ube Chemicals (Asia) following a THB500 million impairment in 4Q, UOB Kay Hian's Arsit Pamaranont says in a research report. In a recent conference call, management disclosed the possibility of further impairment on its investment, the analyst notes. The Thailand-listed integrated petrochemical company also plans to shut down certain unprofitable units this year, which could heighten market worries over additional impairments. The brokerage trims the stock's target price to THB1.25 from THB1.50. However, the bad news is already priced in, the brokerage says as it maintains a buy rating. Shares last quoted at THB1.03. (ronnie.harui@wsj.com)

0142 GMT - Chinese shares open lower, weighed by tech hardware and semiconductor stocks. The benchmark Shanghai Composite Index is 0.2% lower at 3340.77, the Shenzhen Composite Index falls 0.3% and the ChiNext Price Index is off 0.3%. Tech stocks lose some momentum after a recent rally driven by AI startup DeepSeek's breakthrough. Foxconn Industrial Internet drops 0.3% and Luxshare Precision Industry is down 1.0%. Semiconductor Manufacturing International Corp. declines 1.1% and Hygon Information Technology sheds 1.85%. Meanwhile, telecom stocks rise. China Mobile is up 0.9% and China Telecom rises 1.0%. (sherry.qin@wsj.com)

0134 GMT - Maybank should report steady on-quarter net interest income for 4Q 2024, supported by efforts to manage loan yield and deposit costs, RHB IB analysts David Chong and Nabil Thoo say in a note. Meanwhile noninterest income is expected to have softened on quarter due to lower treasury and markets income, though fee income may have stayed resilient, they say. RHB IB forecasts Maybank's 4Q earnings to fall by low to mid single digits sequentially, but rise on year. It expects seasonally higher operating expenses in 4Q to have weighed on profit. RHB maintains a neutral rating on Maybank and keeps its target price at MYR11.00. Shares are unchanged at MYR10.60. (yingxian.wong@wsj.com)

0128 GMT - Hong Kong shares continue open higher, continuing their rally thanks to positive sentiment toward Chinese AI stocks and Alibaba's gains on a potential partnership with Apple. Investors are watching to see if the momentum fueled by Chinese AI startup DeepSeek can last, analysts say. Tech and auto stocks are among the top gainers. Netease and Baidu are up 2.5% and 2.4%, respectively. Li Auto rises 1.7% and Geely gains 1.3%. Alibaba continues its uptrend with a 1.2% rise. Among decliners, JD.com leads losses with a 1.7% fall. Cnooc is down 1.3%. The benchmark Hang Seng Index is up 0.5% at 21958.69 and the Hang Seng Tech Index rises 0.8%.(jiahui.huang@wsj.com; @ivy\_jiahuihuang)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250212017194:0/)
