---
title: "Market Talk Roundup: Latest on U.S. Politics"
date: "2025-02-12 19:25:00"
summary: "The latest Market Talks covering U.S. politics. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.0625 ET - Base metal prices are mixed, with LME three-month copper up 0.3% at $9,387 a metric ton and LME three-month aluminum down 0.9% at $2,615.50 a ton. Tariff pressures are building for the..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The latest Market Talks covering U.S. politics. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.

0625 ET - Base metal prices are mixed, with LME three-month copper up 0.3% at $9,387 a metric ton and LME three-month aluminum down 0.9% at $2,615.50 a ton. Tariff pressures are building for the U.S. economy, BMI says, which could pressure industrial metal demand lower. President Trump's 25% tariffs on aluminum and steel imports could prompt further escalations, it notes. Further tariffs, including the proposed blanket Mexican and Canadian tariffs, could also strengthen the Midwest premium and widen the price difference between U.S. and LME prices. Tariffs will help boost domestic steel production, but it will be a challenge to significantly increase output, BMI writes. The U.S. aluminum industry isn't globally competitive given high costs, and imports account for around 50% of total demand, suggesting significant pass-through effects, BMI adds. (joseph.hoppe@wsj.com)

0528 ET - France has robust foundations on which to weather a trade battle with the U.S., central-bank governor Francois Villeroy de Galhau argues. The eurozone's second-largest economy is, like the rest of the continent, braced for punitive tariffs on its goods exported to the U.S. under President Trump. But France isn't reliant solely on strong export sectors like aeronautics and luxury goods, Villeroy insists. "The French economy... also includes many services, artificial intelligence, tourism and many other areas still developing," the policymaker says. France's level of price inflation has meanwhile been tamed and unemployment is at relatively low levels, he tells Radio France. (joshua.kirby@wsj.com; @joshualeokirby)

0525 ET - Europe should treat U.S. President Trump as wake-up call, Bank of France Governor Francois Villeroy de Galhau says. Trump's election to a second term in the White House has brought about an immediate cooling of relations between the U.S. and Europe, with mutual threats of trade tariffs. Europe must not allow itself to be caught unaware by Trump's mercurial policymaking, Villeroy tells Radio France. "That is not a viable economic strategy," he says. Europe has many strengths and should not make a rod for its own back, says Villeroy, who serves on the governing council of the European Central Bank. "It is very much to be wished that Europe wake up," he says. (joshua.kirby@wsj.com; @joshualeokirby)

0445 ET - Bitcoin edges lower on market volatility and investor caution ahead of U.S. inflation data, Zaye Capital Markets analyst Naeem Aslam says in a note. The inflation data at 1330 GMT could affect broader financial markets and cryptocurrency valuations, he says. "Additionally, recent geopolitical tensions and economic uncertainties have contributed to the cautious sentiment among investors." The cryptocurrency market, particularly bitcoin, might have reached a peak, he says. The surge in so-called memecoins and President Trump's involvement in launching new cryptocurrencies are signs of potential market overheating. Zaye maintains a positive long-term view on bitcoin but advises caution due to macroeconomic concerns. Bitcoin falls 0.3% to $96,130, according to LSEG. (renae.dyer@wsj.com)

0432 ET - Gold futures fall, but remain close to all-time highs. Futures are down 0.5% at $2,916.70 a troy ounce after climbing as high as $2,968.50 in the prior session. There are several key drivers behind gold's all-time high, Metals Focus's Neil Meader says. Many central banks are buying the precious metal to reduce reliance on the dollar, boosting gold's appeal to institutional investors who want to diversify beyond U.S. equities, the consultancy's director of gold and silver says. Gold's rise also reflects uncertainty about U.S. President Trump's plans, particularly tariffs, Meader says. This already created a major dislocation between the main futures market, Comex in New York, and the main physical market in London. The market still seems bullish and further gains can't be ruled out near term, though Metals Focus is wary of medium-term sustainability. (joseph.hoppe@wsj.com)

0337 ET - Rheinmetall should experience market volatility in the coming weeks, Morgan Stanley analysts say. This is due to several events likely to pull investors' sentiment in both directions, they say. These include the Munich Security Conference on Feb. 14-16, where a potential Ukraine-Russia ceasefire is likely to be discussed; the German federal election on Feb. 23, which could yield a government in favor of higher defense spending; and a potential meeting between U.S. President Trump and Russian President Vladimir Putin, which media reports suggest could take place in February or March, the analysts say. "While we see these potential events as presenting more upside than downside risk to our investment case, we acknowledge that market sentiment could be heavily influenced by those headlines," they write. Shares are down 2.6% at 711.4 euros. (cristina.gallardo@wsj.com)

1516 ET - The new tariffs on steel and aluminum imports into the U.S. are lifting the Midwest premium - a surcharge applied to aluminum sold in the U.S. to account for transporting the metal to a buyer. But the premium - which currently trades between 28 and 30 cents a pound, according to price assessment firm Fastmarkets - may still be below the value it needs to be to fully account for new tariffs, says Citi Research in a note. "This blanket tariff is expected to bolster the [Midwest premium], which is currently underpricing such a measure," says Citi, adding that it expects the gamut of tariffs pushed by President Trump to push the premium to roughly 40 cents a pound, nearly the all-time high according to data from Fastmarkets. (kirk.maltais@wsj.com)

1438 ET - The U.S.'s plan to impose new restrictions on exports of key technologies used in artificial intelligence to foreign countries is counterproductive, says Henna Virkkunen, the European Commission's top tech regulator. "We will use all diplomatic means to request that the U.S. would treat the EU in a non-discriminatory way," she says, adding that lifting the restrictions would benefit both the EU and U.S. and calling the EU "the best customer of the U.S. for tech exports." The U.S. floated its AI chip export restrictions — which could lead to many EU member states having the number they can buy capped — last month in an effort to safeguard against national security risks. (edith.hancock@wsj.com)

1344 ET - Clothing supplier Jerash is looking like a benefactor from tariffs. The Jordan-based company is likely to take up more market share from clothing companies that source from China and are now subject to increased duties, D.A. Davidson analyst Michael Baker says in a note. Jerash says in a call with analysts it has gotten more inquiries from customers looking for tariff-free partners. "People are looking for production in manufacturing facilities in tariff-free countries, but now it is just getting more urgent and so that is a great opportunity for us," Chief Executive Samuel Choi says. (katherine.hamilton@wsj.com)

1330 ET - CoreCivic is looking at reopening its South Texas Family Residential Center, which closed in August. The closure contributed to the private prison operator missing Wall Street expectations with its 2025 outlook. But the Trump administration's strong demand for immigrant detention capacity could result in a reactivation of the center, company executives say on a call with analysts. CoreCivic usually takes four to six months to open a new facility, but it is looking to speed up that timeline to meet growing demand, and believes it could open the Texas center quickly because it hasn't been closed for long. (katherine.hamilton@wsj.com)

1327 ET - Private prison manager CoreCivic is expecting the U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement will want to add 150,000 to 200,000 new beds for detained immigrants. The company gave ICE a proposal to offer 28,000 beds for detainees, which could yield up to $1.5 billion in revenue, president and COO Patrick Swindle tells analysts. Even with the Trump administration considering housing detainees at Guantanamo Bay, CoreCivic believes ICE's demand for bed capacity is extremely strong for domestic locations, as well. (katherine.hamilton@wsj.com)

1317 ET - While the North American auto industry scurries to adapt to the threat of US tariffs, auto-parts maker Magna International is deepening relationships with automakers. Magna and Mercedes-Benz are expanding their partnership, which they say is "strengthened through development and engineering services up to the production of the all-new electric model of Mercedes-Benz's iconic off-roader." Last year, Magna began production of the eDS Duo eDrive system at its Lannach facility in Austria. Magna says the long-term partnership includes the production of more than 500,000 iconic off-roader at Magna's Graz, Austria facility since 1979. (adriano.marchese@wsj.com)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250212004998:0/)
