---
title: "House Lawmakers Need More Time on Spending Bill — Barrons.com"
date: "2025-02-10 01:49:00"
summary: "By Liz MoyerHouse lawmakers might take a few more days to introduce their budget resolution after working through the weekend to finalize an agreement, Speaker Mike Johnson said on Sunday.The Louisiana Republican, in New Orleans for the Super Bowl, told Fox News Sunday that they need more time as he..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Liz Moyer

House lawmakers might take a few more days to introduce their budget resolution after working through the weekend to finalize an agreement, Speaker Mike Johnson said on Sunday.

The Louisiana Republican, in New Orleans for the Super Bowl, told Fox News Sunday that they need more time as he tries to navigate negotiations with a razor thin GOP majority.

They had hoped to raise it in committee in the coming week, but "we might push it a little bit further because the details really matter. Remember that I have the smallest margin in history, about a two-vote margin currently, so I've got to make sure everyone agrees before we bring the project forward," Johnson said. "We've got a few more boxes to check."

Johnson said he would spend time with President Donald Trump Sunday evening when Trump joins him at the Super Bowl. The Speaker told Fox he still favors a one-bill approach to a funding resolution, and he wants the House to drive the process.

At the same time, lawmakers in the Senate are proposing their own funding bill that covers border security, energy, and national defense. Sen. Lindsey Graham (R., S.C.) said Friday that his proposed resolution "jumpstarts a process that will give President Trump's team the money they need to secure the border and deport criminals, and make America strong and more energy independent."

In a social media post, Graham said he hoped the House could find a way forward on a bigger budget reconciliation bill, but "we cannot allow this moment to pass, and we cannot let President Trump's America First Agenda stall."

Lawmakers have until March 14, when funding expires after the deadline was extended.

Democrats have pushed back at Trump's executive orders and Elon Musk's budget-slashing efforts at the Department of Government Efficiency, including plans to sharply curtail agencies such as the U.S. Agency for International Development, something a federal judge temporarily blocked on Friday.

Sen. Andy Kim (D., N.J.) told NBC News on Sunday that fellow lawmakers were prepared to take a stand.

"I cannot support efforts that will continue this lawlessness that we're seeing when it comes to this administration's actions," he told Meet the Press. For us to be able to support government funding in that way only for them to turn it around, to dismantle the government, that is not something that should be allowed."

Fox is slated to air an interview with Trump later this afternoon in which he tells anchor Bret Baier that he will direct Musk to examine the Department of Education next.

"He's not gaining anything," Trump tells Fox about Musk's efforts. "In fact, I wonder how he can devote the time to it."

Write to Liz Moyer at liz.moyer@barrons.com

This content was created by Barron's, which is operated by Dow Jones & Co. Barron's is published independently from Dow Jones Newswires and The Wall Street Journal.

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250209000382:0/)
