---
title: "Five Steps to Take if Your Health-Insurance Claim Is Denied — WSJ"
date: "2025-02-13 10:00:00"
summary: "By Julie Wernau and Anna Wilde MathewsFew people realize how worthwhile appealing a denied health-insurance claim can be. Insurers in the U.S. process more than five billion payment claims annually, federal figures show. About 850 million are denied, according to health-policy nonprofit KFF. Among the fewer than 1% of people..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Julie Wernau and Anna Wilde Mathews

Few people realize how worthwhile appealing a denied health-insurance claim can be. Insurers in the U.S. process more than five billion payment claims annually, federal figures show. About 850 million are denied, according to health-policy nonprofit KFF. Among the fewer than 1% of people who appeal, up to three-quarters are successful. Here are five things you can do to appeal a denied health-insurance claim.

1. Read up

Know what your plan covers. A good place to start is the summary of benefits and coverage. More detailed information should be available from your employer or insurer, which can provide a more in-depth document sometimes called the "evidence of coverage." Check to make sure a denial met your insurer's own rules. These policies are generally available online.

2. Take note

Log dates of calls to your insurer and whom you spoke to. Save paperwork including billing codes for denied services. And act quickly: Insurers have deadlines to file appeals.

3. Fight back

Call your insurer at the number on the back of your insurance card and ask why treatment wasn't covered. You can ask how to file an appeal. If you have a denial or explanation of benefits letter, look for the section explaining appeals.

4. Get help

State assistance programs and nonprofits including the Patient Advocate Foundation and the Medicare Rights Center can help craft appeals. A startup called Claimable is trying to use technology to smooth the process. You can hire an advocate, looking through a directory or a third-party company, Solace Health. The nonprofit Dollar For helps with hospital bills. You can also ask your doctor's office or hospital to appeal for you, and try to ensure they keep you in the loop on their communications.

5. Escalate

After you determine why your insurer denied a claim, you can write a letter explaining why the rejection wasn't warranted. Your doctor can write a letter explaining why care is medically necessary. Pertinent medical studies can strengthen your case. Request the "designated record set" relevant to your case.

If your appeal is rejected, you can often appeal to a higher authority within the insurer. If that fails, you can generally appeal to a third party, often an independent review organization or a government-administered program. Your rejection letter or state insurance department should explain those steps. Practices vary state by state. You can also escalate your appeal to an administrative law judge.

Write to Julie Wernau at julie.wernau@wsj.com and Anna Wilde Mathews at Anna.Mathews@wsj.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250212016994:0/)
