---
title: "Market Talk Roundup: Latest on U.S. Politics"
date: "2025-02-11 12:09:00"
summary: "The latest Market Talks covering U.S. politics. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.2309 ET - President Trump's trade, fiscal and immigration policy agenda is expected to be mildly inflationary, BofA analysts write, forecasting the changes to be reflected in inflation by 2H 2025. Any additional tariffs in..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The latest Market Talks covering U.S. politics. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.

2309 ET - President Trump's trade, fiscal and immigration policy agenda is expected to be mildly inflationary, BofA analysts write, forecasting the changes to be reflected in inflation by 2H 2025. Any additional tariffs in the next few weeks could advance the timeline, they note. "A key question is whether policy changes impact long-run inflation expectations," they say, adding that market-based measures remain within the historical range. BofA reiterates its stance that the Fed's cutting cycle is over, with inflation "stuck above target," forecasting both headline and core CPI to have increased by 0.3% on month in January. "If our January CPI forecast is correct, the case for the Fed to stay on hold will strengthen further," they write. U.S. CPI data is due Wednesday. (jihye.lee@wsj.com)

2150 ET - Emerging Asian economies, such as India, Thailand and China face risk of higher reciprocal tariffs by the U.S., Nomura analysts say in a research note. These countries have higher effective tariff rates on the U.S. than those having free trade agreements with the U.S., such as Singapore and South Korea, they say. Nomura expects Asian economies to step up negotiations with Trump. Both India and Thailand are considering increasing imports or reducing tariffs on certain U.S. goods, they note. Whether Trump imposes higher reciprocal tariffs on a sectoral basis or across the board is important, they say. Should Trump take a sectoral approach, then even countries with lower weighted average tariff rates could be subject to higher tariffs in specific sectors, they add. (sherry.qin@wsj.com)

1649 ET - A 25% U.S. tariff on Canadian aluminum "will be so destructive for industrial aluminum value chain in the U.S. that it cannot last," says Jean Simard, CEO of the Aluminium Association of Canada. Simard tells WSJ he's hoping the Trump administration will carve out Canadian-made aluminum from the president's decision to impose a 25% tariff on imported steel and aluminum. Simard says small- and mid-sized U.S. manufacturers will be stuck paying vastly more for the metal which is used to build cars, aerospace products, and consumer appliances. "At some point in time, some products will be priced out of the market and replaced by foreign imports," Simard predicts. Canada supplies about 60% of the aluminum the U.S. imports. (paul.vieira@wsj.com; @paulvieira)

1456 ET - Tariffs could impact consumer prices faster than they did in the past, WisdomTree's Sam Rines says. "If you had asked me 10 years ago how quickly the pass-through would happen, I would have said...18 to 24 months." But after passing on to consumers increased costs caused by tariffs from Trump's first term, the war in Ukraine and other recent shocks, companies should now be able to adjust prices in three to nine months, Rines says. They "have an excuse to raise prices, they've done it before...they'll do it again and they'll likely be successful simply because the consumer knows there's not really another option." (paulo.trevisani@wsj.com; @ptrevisani)

1425 ET - Shopify may come out unscathed from a tariff situation, says RWM Commerce Consulting CEO Rick Watson. "I am not sure it significantly changes the game for Shopify or its merchants. They have not been overly advantaged or disadvantaged," he says. The company has come out in support of free trade, since 15% of its business is cross-border, they benefit more from fewer walls in place. "It's a similar statement to what you might have seen someone like eBay say in years past," he says. Watson notes that chaos in general is not good for any business, so it could create some corporate indecision in the short-term, but this should settle down at some point." (adriano.marchese@wsj.com)

1419 ET - Threats by President Trump to apply or raise tariffs on trading partners around the globe have traders jumping into gold futures — with the front-month contract closing up 1.6% to $2,914.30 a troy ounce. It's a new record for front-month gold, cracking the $2,900 barrier for the first time. Trump's latest threats, a 25% tariff on steel and aluminum sent to the U.S., looks to have an outsized impact on Canada and Mexico, with Canada selling the U.S. roughly 60% of the aluminum it imports. But markets remain unclear on if this is happening at all. "Recent events have taught us all not to take anything for granted and it's still possible that carve-outs or exemptions will be agreed," says Capital Economics in a note.SPDR Gold rises 1.6%. (kirk.maltais@wsj.com)

1253 ET - The U.S. manufacturing and auto industries are preparing for new 25% tariffs on aluminum and steel imports announced by President Trump. The move will likely have a particularly large effect on imports from Canada and Mexico, says ING Economics in a note. The firm says U.S. manufacturers import over half of the aluminum they need, with Canada the source of roughly 60%. Canada and Mexico account for about 90% of aluminum scrap imports, according to ING. Meanwhile, 23% of steel imports come from Canada, 16% from Brazil, 12% from Mexico and 10% from South Korea. (kirk.maltais@wsj.com)

1237 ET - Treasury Secretary Scott Bessent spoke with Canadian Finance Minister Dominic LeBlanc, according to a summary of the call from the Treasury Department. The readout indicates Bessent stressed the importance of the U.S. and Canada "to combat security threats and engage on economic issues." The reference to security threats likely refers to border security, and stemming the flow of migrants and illegal drugs, like fentanyl, into the U.S. Trump has threatened a 25% tariff on all nonenergy imports from Canada unless Ottawa takes steps to fortify border security and deterring fentanyl trafficking. Spokesmen for LeBlanc did not immediately respond about the phone call with Bessent. (paul.vieira@wsj.com; @paulvieira)

1155 ET - Base metal prices rise, with LME three-month copper up 0.2% at $9,456.5 a metric ton and LME three-month aluminum up 1.2% at $2,659 a ton. President Trump has proposed 25% tariffs on aluminum and steel imports, which has generated erratic movements on the markets, ActivTrades' Saverio Berlinzani says in a note. U.S. Midwest domestic hot-rolled coil steel futures are up 6.1% at a 10-month high, while aluminum is gaining on concerns about a potential drop in supply, especially in the manufacturing and automotive areas, Berlinzani writes. Analysts and industry experts expect the tariffs to increase prices, which will inevitably be passed onto final consumers, Berlinzani says. In parallel with an increase in inflation, this could further delay U.S. interest-rate cuts--further damping industrial metal demand, Berlinzani adds. (joseph.hoppe@wsj.com)

1145 ET - Gold futures rise to record highs on safe-haven demand. Futures are up 1.5% at $2,932.10 a troy ounce, having reached $2,938.10 earlier in the session. Gold's gains come as global trade war risks escalate, SP Angel analysts say in a note. President Trump said he will impose 25% tariffs on all steel and aluminum imports into the U.S., and will be looking to outline retaliatory tariffs on imports from a wide range of countries that tax U.S. exports, SP Angel says. China has imposed retaliatory tariffs on $14 billion's worth of goods from the U.S. in a sign the economic conflict is escalating, SP Angel says. A new Chinese pilot program will also allow 10 insurance firms to invest up to 1% of their holdings in gold, equivalent to around $27 billion in new demand, SP Angel adds. (joseph.hoppe@wsj.com)

1134 ET - President Trump announced intentions to levy 25% tariffs on U.S. imports of steel and aluminum, which has injected a fresh round of uncertainty into financial markets. But metal traders are not convinced that a global tariff on aluminum imports in particular will stick, says Natalie Scott-Gray of StoneX in a note. "It is potentially difficult to see a scenario in which global 25% tariffs on aluminium go into action, given the U.S.'s heavy reliance on imports and lack of current domestic capacity," says Scott-Gray. Primary aluminum produced in the U.S. has been on the decline for decades, losing roughly 80% of its domestic production capacity in the past two decades. China has stepped in as the leading producer of aluminum worldwide in that timeframe. (kirk.maltais@wsj.com)

1049 ET - Corporate bonds issued by companies within U.S. tech, auto and basic materials sectors have a higher exposure to foreign revenue and are more vulnerable to tariffs implemented by President Trump, BNP Paribas credit strategists say in a note. Issuers within services sectors, however, such as healthcare and cruise companies, have lower foreign sales and are better placed to avoid the negative impacts of tariffs, the strategists say. (miriam.mukuru@wsj.com)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250210012693:0/)
