---
title: "Driven Brands Holdings Inc. to Host Fourth Quarter and Year-End Earnings Call on February 25, 2025"
date: "2025-02-11 20:35:00"
summary: "Driven Brands Holdings Inc. to Host Fourth Quarter and Year-End Earnings Call on February 25, 2025CHARLOTTE, N.C.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--February 11, 2025--Driven Brands Holdings Inc. will release its fourth quarter and year-end 2024 earnings before the market opens on February 25, 2025. Following the release, management will host a conference call at..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Driven Brands Holdings Inc. to Host Fourth Quarter and Year-End Earnings Call on February 25, 2025

CHARLOTTE, N.C.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--February 11, 2025--

Driven Brands Holdings Inc. will release its fourth quarter and year-end 2024 earnings before the market opens on February 25, 2025. Following the release, management will host a conference call at 8:30 a.m. ET to review the Company's financial and operating performance.

The call will be available by webcast and can be accessed by visiting the Company's Investor Relations website at investors.drivenbrands.com. A replay of the call will be available for at least three months.

About Driven Brands

Driven Brands(TM), headquartered in Charlotte, NC, is the largest automotive services company in North America, providing a range of consumer and commercial automotive needs, including paint, collision, glass, vehicle repair, oil change, maintenance and car wash. Driven Brands is the parent company of some of North America's leading automotive service businesses including Take 5 Oil Change(R), Take 5 Car Wash(R), Meineke Car Care Centers(R), Maaco(R), 1-800-Radiator & A/C(R), Auto Glass Now(R), and CARSTAR(R). Driven Brands has more than 5,100 locations across 14 countries, and services approximately 70 million vehicles annually. Driven Brands' network generates approximately $2.3 billion in annual revenue from approximately $6.4 billion in system-wide sales.

View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20250211365741/en/

CONTACT: Shareholder/Analyst inquiries:

Dawn Francfort

ICR, Inc.

investors@drivenbrands.com

(203) 682-8200

Media inquiries:

Taylor Blanchard

taylor.blanchard@drivenbrands.com

(704) 644-8129

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250211004311:0/)
