---
title: "Why Fox Is Streaming the Super Bowl on Its Free Tubi Service"
date: "2025-02-10 06:30:00"
summary: "By Joe FlintYou don't need a cable package or streaming subscription to view this year's Super Bowl. Today's game will air on Tubi, the Fox-owned free streaming service, in addition to the Fox network.For the unfamiliar, Tubi is an advertiser-supported streaming service with 97 million monthly users and a collection..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Joe Flint

You don't need a cable package or streaming subscription to view this year's Super Bowl. Today's game will air on Tubi, the Fox-owned free streaming service, in addition to the Fox network.

For the unfamiliar, Tubi is an advertiser-supported streaming service with 97 million monthly users and a collection of original content, old movies and TV reruns.

Tubi has become a significant part of parent Fox Corp.'s digital strategy and is projected to pass the $1 billion revenue mark for fiscal 2025, Fox said on its most recent earnings call.

Having the Super Bowl could broaden Tubi's exposure. It is popular among younger Black and Latino viewers, according to Nielsen and 34% of its audience is in the 18-34 demographic. A bigger audience means advertisers get more value for their money.

"Hopefully we will bring in a lot more people," said Tubi Chief Executive Anjali Sud. Tubi has also created original content for the big game including a red carpet show about fashion and culture.

While Tubi typically doesn't require people to register to use the platform, it is asking for emails this time. Sud promises "no upsell, free trials, or anything."

This item is part of a Wall Street Journal live coverage event. The full stream can be found by searching P/WSJL (WSJ Live Coverage).

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250209000811:0/)
