---
title: "Avis Budget CEO Joe Ferraro to Step Down, Brian Choi Named Successor — Update"
date: "2025-02-12 06:14:00"
summary: "By Sabela Ojea and Katherine HamiltonAvis Budget's Chief Executive Officer Joe Ferraro is stepping down and will be succeeded by Brian Choi, its chief transformation officer.The Parsippany, N.J.-based car-rental company on Tuesday said that Ferraro will leave his position, which he has held since 2020, on June 30 and will..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Sabela Ojea and Katherine Hamilton

Avis Budget's Chief Executive Officer Joe Ferraro is stepping down and will be succeeded by Brian Choi, its chief transformation officer.

The Parsippany, N.J.-based car-rental company on Tuesday said that Ferraro will leave his position, which he has held since 2020, on June 30 and will become an adviser to the board. Choi will succeed him as CEO on July 1.

The CEO change came after Avis swung to a loss in the fourth quarter, mainly due to a new strategy regarding its car fleet that cost $2.3 billion. The company said that travel demand is strong, which was reflected by strong business during the recent holidays.

Avis reported a loss of $1.96 billion, or $55.66 a share, in the quarter compared with a profit of $259 million, or $7.10 a share, a year earlier.

Revenue fell 2% to $2.71 billion. Analysts surveyed by FactSet forecast revenue of $2.72 billion.

The loss reflects a change in strategy to accelerate fleet rotations, which resulted in shortening the life of most of the vehicles in the Americas' segment, as well as the one-time impairment charge. Ferraro said the change is expected to create greater certainty in fleet costs and make growth more sustainable.

He added that strong holiday travel helped boost revenue in the fourth quarter, with record levels during the December holidays and strong numbers for Martin Luther King, Jr. Day.

"Travel demand is strong and our brands are well-positioned to take advantage of this activity," he said.

The company also named board chairman Jagdeep Pahwa as its executive chairman.

Shares of Avis fell 5.8% to $85.38 in late trading on Tuesday. Through the market close the stock was down 47% in the last 12 months.

Write to Sabela Ojea at sabela.ojea@wsj.com and Katherine Hamilton at katherine.hamilton@wsj.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250211012189:0/)
