---
title: "Global Equities Roundup: Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-11 12:16:00"
summary: "The latest Market Talks covering Equities. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.0416 GMT - Indian shares are lower as concerns about trade friction between the U.S. and its trading partners continue. Financial and industrial stocks are leading the declines. Power Grid Corp. of India is down 1.4%..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The latest Market Talks covering Equities. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.

0416 GMT - Indian shares are lower as concerns about trade friction between the U.S. and its trading partners continue. Financial and industrial stocks are leading the declines. Power Grid Corp. of India is down 1.4% and Bajaj Finserv is 1.2% lower. Among individual movers, FSN E-Commerce Ventures is up 1.6% after third-quarter net profit climbed 61% on year. Investors are focusing on earnings as well as U.S. trade policies. Vodafone Idea and Lupin are scheduled to release their earnings later in the day. The Sensex is down 0.2% at 77168.57. (kosaku.narioka@wsj.com; @kosakunarioka)

0414 GMT - IOI Corp. is projected to post sequentially stronger 2Q FY 2025 earnings, mainly supported by its plantation segment, says UOB Kay Hian analyst Lester Siew in a note. The company's 2Q core net profit is forecast to have risen 15%-25% on quarter, Siew says. The plantation segment benefited from a sharp rise in selling prices toward late 2024, Siew says. UOB KH thinks the current risk-reward tradeoff for IOI is fair, partly due to its plantations' capped exposure to high crude palm oil prices. UOB KH maintains a hold rating and target price of MYR3.80. Shares last closed at MYR3.75. (amanda.lee@wsj.com)

0414 GMT - New Zealand's NZX-50 index ended 0.3% higher at 12917.45, led by Vulcan Steel which pointed to an improving market for its products this year after a challenging run. Vulcan Steel rose 4.0% after projecting a recovery in trading volumes in New Zealand from as soon as 2Q. Shares in insurer Tower hit their highest level since early 2016, up 3.6%, after reporting continued growth in gross written premium in 1Q. Power generators were broadly higher, with Meridian Energy up 1.3% and Genesis Energy advancing 0.7%. However, Manawa Energy declined by 0.4%. (david.winning@wsj.com; @dwinningWSJ)

0347 GMT - BYD is shifting its strategy to meet competition, from price cutting in 2024 to functional upgrades this year, Nomura analysts say in a research note. BYD Monday introduced its smart driving system The God's Eye, which will be available in most of its models. Nomura thinks BYD is the first carmaker in China to bring level 2+ advanced driving assistance functions into below-70,000-yuan market. With China's national level trade-in policy, customers could buy battery-electric vehicles powered with level 2+ driving assistance system for less than 60,000 yuan, they say. BYD's product mix "looks attractive for end-customers and should help the company to deliver further growth ahead in both China and overseas markets," they note. Nomura maintains a buy call on BYD and keeps its target at HK$375. Shares were last at HK$330. (sherry.qin@wsj.com)

0339 GMT - Chinese automakers' small exposure to the U.S. and Mexico mean they should face limited direct impact from proposed U.S. tariffs on China and Mexico, S&P Global Ratings analysts say in a report. However, what may be more meaningful are the indirect effects. If the U.S. follows through on raising tariffs on Chinese imports to as high as 60%, the Chinese economy would be hit hard, hurting automakers and suppliers, S&P says. "The unpredictability of U.S. tariff actions also weakens Chinese firms' ability to plan investments," the rating firm says. The potential 25% tariff on Mexico may drive Chinese carmakers to reconsider plans to build plants there, S&P adds, noting that the "tariff issue is much more about their ability to expand overseas, and not about returns on existing assets." (hoishan.chan@wsj.com)

0323 GMT - DBS remains as a safe haven for investors to "hide out and tide through" current uncertainties and market volatility, say RHB Research analysts in a note. The Singapore bank's dividend and capital return policies offer investors clear visibility on the expected dividend yield ahead, they write. RHB raises its 2025 dividend per share forecast to S$3.06 from S$2.46 after factoring DBS' plans to introduce a capital return dividend of S$0.15 per quarter. RHB also raises the stock's target price to S$51.20 from S$44.70, while maintaining a buy rating. Shares are 1.0% lower at S$44.92.(amanda.lee@wsj.com)

0300 GMT - Wilmar International's 4Q earnings are projected to recover sequentially, UOB Kay Hian analysts write in a note. The agribusiness company's 4Q core net profit could range between US$330 million and US$340 million, up from 3Q's US$208 million, they say. The plantation and sugar milling segment is expected to see an on-quarter recovery, mainly due to palm oil plantations, they say. Profit margin from palm upstream likely improved, amid higher palm kernel prices and declining fertilizer costs, they add. UOB Kay Hian maintains a hold rating, while raising its target price to S$3.18 from S$3.00. Shares are 0.6% higher at S$3.26.(amanda.lee@wsj.com)

0256 GMT - Osotspa faces earnings hit from some new headwinds, Thanachart Securities' Pattadol Bunnak says in a research report. Its strategy to reintroduce a THB10/bottle energy drink in Thailand may cannibalize its own market share of existing THB12/bottle version and is unlikely to lead to imminent market-share gains since its rival's product costs THB10/bottle. Other worries are an expected income-tax increase stemming from the global minimum tax and more competition in Myanmar, the analyst adds. The brokerage slashes its earnings estimates for the Thailand beverage producer by 17% in 2025, 20% in 2026, and 35% in 2027. It cuts the stock's rating to sell from buy and the target price to THB13.00 from THB26.00. Shares closed 3.3% lower at THB14.70 on Monday. (ronnie.harui@wsj.com)

0247 GMT - Maybank remains bullish on DBS after the Singapore bank's 2024 earnings beat street expectations. DBS's loan growth is expected to accelerate to 5.4% on year in FY2025 and its return on equity to average to 15.8% in 2025-2027 compared with the 12% in the past 10 years, according to Maybank's head of equity research Thilan Wickramasinghe. While net interest margin growth is unlikely to persist going in to 2025, the management claims that the credit pipeline is strong, helping offset NIM declines, Wickramasinghe notes in a report. Earnings could grow at 1% CAGR over 2025-2027, while dividends may expand at 7%, delivering more than 6.5% yields, he says. All of the factors mentioned justifies a higher valuation, he adds. Maybank raises the stock's target price to S$51.37 From S$46.91. Shares are last at S$44.93. (monica.gupta@wsj.com)

0218 GMT - Singapore's FTSE Straits Times Index falls 0.4% to 3860.13, erasing earlier gains, amid cautious sentiment toward President Trump's announcement of global 25% tariffs on imports of steel and aluminum to the U.S. "Despite the markets' muted reactions, we caution against complacency given past experiences," DBS Group Research's Philip Wee says in commentary. The senior forex strategist cites Trump's tariff actions and announcements during his first presidential term. Among the worst performers on the benchmark index, Mapletree Industrial Trust falls 2.35%, Sembcorp Industries drops 1.9%, and Frasers Logistics & Commercial Trust sheds 1.7%. (ronnie.harui@wsj.com)

0150 GMT - Chinese shares are down, reversing slight gains at the open. Investors are cautious after President Trump imposed 25% tariffs on steel and aluminum imports, heightening the trade war. Software and consumer stocks are leading the decline. iFlytek is down 1.2% and Range Intelligent Computing Technology Group is 2.8% lower. China Tourism Group Duty Free Corp. is down 0.8% and Yonghui Superstores declines 2.15%. BYD rises 2.4% after it introduced an AI-powered driving assistance system in China. The benchmark Shanghai Composite Index is 0.1% lower at 3318.25, the Shenzhen Composite Index is down 0.5% and the ChiNext Price Index is 1.0% lower.(sherry.qin@wsj.com)

0142 GMT - Singapore Exchange stands to benefit from an uncertain macroeconomic outlook and potential rate cuts this year, UOB Kay Hian analysts say in a research report. These would improve trading velocity at SGX, sending its cash equities segment into revenue and profitability growth, the analysts say. Also, upcoming announcements from the Monetary Authority of Singapore's review group to revitalize Singapore's stock market would likely boost investor sentiment in 2025, they add. The brokerage lifts its FY 2025-2027 headline PATMI forecasts for SGX by 8%-9% to reflect higher margin assumptions. It raises the stock's target price to S$12.58 from S$11.83 with an unchanged hold rating. Shares are 0.4% higher at S$13.76. (ronnie.harui@wsj.com)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250210012716:0/)
