---
title: "News Highlights: Top Global Markets News of the Day - Thursday at 11 AM ET"
date: "2025-02-14 00:15:00"
summary: "Wholesale Inflation Sped Up in January With 0.4% Monthly Gain in PPIThe consensus estimate was for a 0.2% rise in the producer price index.U.S. Jobless Claims Declined Last WeekThe number of Americans who filed for new jobless benefits fell to 213,000. Economists polled by The Wall Street Journal had been..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

**Wholesale Inflation Sped Up in January With 0.4% Monthly Gain in PPI**

The consensus estimate was for a 0.2% rise in the producer price index.

**U.S. Jobless Claims Declined Last Week**

The number of Americans who filed for new jobless benefits fell to 213,000. Economists polled by The Wall Street Journal had been forecasting 214,000 initial claims.

**Dow Moves Higher as Producer Inflation Tops Forecasts**

U.S. stocks made small gains after January producer price index data came in higher than expected.

**U.K. Ends Year With Weak Growth as Tariffs Threaten New Blow**

The economy grew just 0.1% between October and December from the previous three-month period as the country braces for higher U.S. tariffs.

**Eurozone Industry Ends Bright Streak With Drop in Output**

Industrial production fell 1.1% compared with the month before, quashing signs of recovery seen earlier in the quarter.

**IEA Slightly Lifts Oil Demand Outlook, Says Supply Surplus Narrowing**

The International Energy Agency modestly raised its forecast for global oil-demand growth and said improved compliance with output quotas among members of the OPEC+ alliance is reducing a projected supply surplus in the market.

**As Buyers Fail to Show Up, More Homes Are Being Pulled From Sale**

An increase in the number of properties being delisted could be an early sign of a weakening housing market.

**Inflation Helped Trump Get Elected. Now It's His Problem.**

The president's team blames his predecessor for stubborn inflation, but Trump's own agenda could make it harder to defeat.

**U.K. Competition Watchdog Targets Faster M&A Reviews**

The regulator plans to speed up its decision-making on large deals amid concern its probes could be having a chilling effect on investment.

**Brookfield Credit Chief Bullish on Future Growth of Asset-Based Lending**

The firm said it expects to double its roughly $317 billion in total credit assets within five years.

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250213011626:0-news-highlights-top-global-markets-news-of-the-day-thursday-at-11-am-et/)
