---
title: "Buy Nvidia's stock ahead of earnings? This analyst makes the case."
date: "2025-02-10 23:18:00"
summary: "By Emily BaryAn Evercore analyst expects an upbeat earnings report later this month and runs down why DeepSeek fears seem overdoneEvercore ISI analyst Mark Lipacis is shrugging off Wall Street's concerns about Nvidia Corp.'s stock as he recommends buying it ahead of the company's earnings report.Nvidia shares (NVDA) have been..."
categories:
  - "MarketWatch"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "MarketWatch"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Emily Bary

An Evercore analyst expects an upbeat earnings report later this month and runs down why DeepSeek fears seem overdone

Evercore ISI analyst Mark Lipacis is shrugging off Wall Street's concerns about Nvidia Corp.'s stock as he recommends buying it ahead of the company's earnings report.

Nvidia shares (NVDA) have been weighed down in recent weeks by several factors having to do with DeepSeek, the Chinese artificial-intelligence software that indicated it's possible to train models more cheaply than once thought. Those breakthroughs sparked fears that customers wouldn't need as many Nvidia graphics processing units down the line, or that they would instead opt for application-specific integrated circuits like those made by Broadcom Inc. (AVGO) and Marvell Technology Inc. (MRVL).

But after talking with "senior AI engineers" at big hyperscale cloud providers, Lipacis said he feels good about Nvidia's positioning. The company "remains the platform of choice for hyperscalers' customers, [and] the robustness of its software ecosystem and breadth of its development community put it 5-10 years ahead of anything else in the market," he wrote.

Further, the DeepSeek example shows that large-language models "are still evolving rapidly," and that backdrop bodes well for Nvidia, in his view, since the company has "flexible and programmable platforms." Nvidia's chips can handle both training and inferencing, and in a world where inferencing work becomes more important, Lipacis said one expert predicted Nvidia would be the most efficient player.

Nvidia shares are down 9% over the past three months, while the PHLX Semiconductor Index SOX has lost 4% during that period.

Part of the recent weakness also relates to concerns about the ramp of Nvidia's new Blackwell chip, Lipacis said, but he noted that demand for Nvidia's broader offerings is still ahead of supply. "Absent B100 availability, [Nvidia's] current solution, H100 would be purchased instead," Lipacis wrote, referring to products from the Blackwell and Hopper lines, respectively.

He opened up a "tactical outperform" call on Nvidia's stock ahead of the earnings report on Feb. 26. The company is expected to deliver "a positive report and outlook" then, according to Lipacis.

"We view the biggest risk to our call that pushout of Blackwell could translate to an air pocket of shipments," he wrote.

Nvidia's stock is up about 3% in morning action Monday.

See also: Arm's outlook doesn't live up to the hype after the stock's big rally this year

-Emily Bary

This content was created by MarketWatch, which is operated by Dow Jones & Co. MarketWatch is published independently from Dow Jones Newswires and The Wall Street Journal.

[MarketWatch](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_SN20250210007645:0/)
