---
title: "North American Morning Briefing: Stock Futures Lower on Firm Tariffs Plan"
date: "2025-02-11 19:15:00"
summary: "OPENING CALLIndex futures were sliding on Tuesday after the U.S. outlined a concrete plan for foreign metals tariffs.Stocks had earlier shrugged off the tariff threat but looked set to fall following President Trump's signing of dual executive orders for a blanket 25% levy on steel and aluminum imports. A White..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

OPENING CALL

Index futures were sliding on Tuesday after the U.S. outlined a concrete plan for foreign metals tariffs.

Stocks had earlier shrugged off the tariff threat but looked set to fall following President Trump's signing of dual executive orders for a blanket 25% levy on steel and aluminum imports. A White House official said the tariffs were expected to take hold March 4.

The European Union responded swiftly, with European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen saying the bloc intends to retaliate against the latest tariffs .

"At this stage, traders have little clarity about how far Trump's tariff policies will go, whether they are mostly a negotiating tactic or if they will have a more long-lasting economic impact," XTB said.

Meanwhile, the Jerome Powell could also move markets when he appears before Congress later for his twice-yearly testimony.

Powell is expected to sound upbeat on the health of the economy but dodge politically fraught questions about his relationship with Trump.

Stocks to Watch

U.S.-listed shares of BP rose slightly after it reported fourth-quarter earnings that missed analysts' expectations and announced a strategy reset.

Cleveland-Cliffs rose 2.9%, Nucor was up 2% and United States Steel increased 1.6%, extending the previous day's gains following Trump's tariffs announcement.

Coca-Cola was up 0.2%. It is scheduled to report fourth-quarter earnings Tuesday before the open.

Fluence Energy fell 35% after posting a wider first-quarter loss and said it was cutting its fiscal 2025 revenue guidance.

Harmonic dropped 27% after issuing a forecast for the first quarter and year that was short of analysts' expectations.

Lattice Semiconductor went up 14% after fourth-quarter earnings beat analysts' expectations and the company's forecast for the first quarter also topped forecasts.

Phillips 66 rose 3.7% after WSJ reported Elliott has built a stake of more than $2.5 billion in the oil refiner.

Super Micro Computer said last week it would be providing a fiscal second-quarter "business update" on Tuesday after the closing bell. Shares fell 6.3%.

Watch For:

Earnings from Coca-Cola, Shopify, Gilead Sciences, DoorDash, Humana, Carrier Global, DuPont, Zillow, Super Micro Computer, AutoNation, Upstart Holdings and Lyft

Today's Top Headlines/Must Reads:

- Why This Week's Inflation Report Is Especially Important

- The Magnificent 7 Are So Last Year. Cash Cows Are the New Kings.

- Musk's $97.4 Billion OpenAI Bid Piles Pressure on Altman

MARKET WRAPS

Forex:

The dollar traded steady ahead of Powell's testimony.

The Fed chair is expected to sound cautious about cutting interest rates, though there's mounting pressure from President Trump to lower rates, Swissquote Bank said.

U.S. growth remains solid, the jobs market healthy, and inflation sticky, while Trump's growth-boosting policies and tariff threats could increase inflation, Swissquote noted.

A cautious stance from Powell would potentially boost the dollar.

The euro could fall to parity against the dollar by mid-year as Trump's tariff plans will hurt the eurozone economy , Rabobank said.

The EU said Tuesday it would retaliate against new U.S. tariffs on European steel and aluminium exports.

Europe is vulnerable to tariffs as it has a far more open economy than the U.S., Rabobank said.

Sterling trimmed losses while yields on gilts rose slightly after Bank of England official Catherine Mann suggested interest rates would need to remain high .

Mann was one of two BOE policymakers who preferred a larger 50 basis-point interest-rate cut on Thursday.

On Tuesday, she said data point to a "non-linear" fall in employment. This allowed her to look past a likely near-term inflation rise, but going forward she prefers gradual rate cuts.

Bonds:

Trump's recent comments on Treasurys seem concerning to Pepperstone but tariffs still appear to be front of mind for market participants.

Trump suggested Sunday that the government's efficiency team had found irregularities that could mean the U.S.'s debt obligations are lower than thought, potentially implying that some payments could be disregarded.

"Much more of this talk and participants will have little-to-no choice but to attach a higher risk premium to U.S. debt, and perhaps even be forced to sell Treasury holdings," Pepperstone said.

That said, markets remain focused on tariffs for now even as fatigue on that front seems to be settling in.

Treasurys took the comments in stride, with little changes on Monday, or Tuesday overnight.

LBBW said the Fed will be closely monitoring to ensure that inflation expectations do not spiral out of control, confirming its view that the fed funds rate will not be lowered again until the end of this year.

"If the next interest rate move actually goes up in view of the inflation risks, the yields on long-term U.S. government bonds are likely to skyrocket ."

Energy:

Oil extended gains from the previous trading session despite fears that President Trump's trade tariffs might hurt global growth.

Prices were boosted by signs of tighter supplies and rising geopolitical tensions .

According to a Bloomberg report, Russian oil production slipped further below the country's OPEC+ quota in January, easing concerns over an oversupplied market even if the Kremlin still has to make up for past overproduction.

Morgan Stanley said Trump's trade turmoil could push OPEC and its allies to extend existing production cuts once again.

Tariffs and counter tariffs have the potential to hit oil-intensive sectors of the economy the hardest, hurting global growth and demand for crude.

"Adding supply into a period of rising trade tensions is not a compelling prospect, and we suspect that OPEC+ will avoid this."

Metals:

Gold futures rose after setting a fresh record earlier in the session.

Gold and the dollar both extended gains, fuelled by fresh tariff threats from President Trump, Swissquote Bank said.

China, Turkey, India and Eastern European nations among others are continuing to buy gold to build their reserves of assets that don't carry Trump or U.S. risks.

While the tight trade and geopolitical environment could get tenser and uglier very quickly, gold remains the ultimate Trump hedge, and makes $3,000 an ounce easily achievable, according to Swissquote.

Heightened volatility will likely keep demand for gold strong and sticky, Maybank said after the haven asset broke above the $2,900/oz mark.

It noted reports of a shortage of bullion due to a rush in gold shipments in anticipation of tariffs.

Base metals fell, but copper and aluminum prices were both up on-week.

Assuming there are no exemptions to Trump's latest plan, aluminum and steel tariffs will largely be passed through to U.S. prices only, Goldman Sachs said.

TODAY'S TOP HEADLINES

BP Touts 'New Beginning,' Fundamental Change in Strategy

BP will reset its strategy with a new direction for the oil major, days after reports that activist hedge fund Elliott Management has taken a stake in the company with plans to push for changes to boost shareholder returns.

While neither news of the shareholding, nor Elliott's plans for the company have been confirmed, BP's Chief Executive Murray Auchincloss is expected to jettison his predecessors low carbon strategy in favor of core oil-and-gas assets.

SMIC Quarterly Profit Falls, Expects Continued Revenue Growth

Semiconductor Manufacturing International Corp., China's largest chip maker, reported lower profit during the traditional off-peak season but said it expects continued revenue growth in the current quarter.

SMIC said Tuesday that its fourth-quarter net profit fell 38% from a year earlier to $107.6 million, missing a FactSet consensus estimate of $191.5 million.

UniCredit Guides For Flat Profit This Year With Higher Returns

UniCredit guided for stable profit in 2025 and promised increased shareholder returns despite an expected dip in revenue as lower interest rates eat into its top line.

The Italian bank on Tuesday said it expects this year's net profit to be broadly in line with 2024's result of 9.31 billion euros ($9.60 billion). UniCredit's net profit metric is adjusted for previous year's tax losses from deferred tax assets-balance-sheet items reducing future tax obligations.

BOE Key Rate Should Remain 'Well Above' Neutral, Mann Says

The Bank of England's key interest rate should continue to restrain economic activity to ensure that households and businesses don't act in ways that would prolong a coming pickup in inflation, a member of the Monetary Policy Committee said Tuesday.

Catherine L. Mann on Thursday surprised investors by voting to lower the key interest rate by half of a percentage point, a larger move than that favored by the majority. Mann had on a number of previous occasions voted for a higher rate of interest than that favored by the majority.

Chinese Auto Sales Fell in January on Subdued Demand

China's vehicle sales fell in January, pressured by subdued demand and a front-loading effect from the previous month.

Retail sales of passenger cars fell 12.1% to 1.79 million vehicles in January from a year earlier, the China Passenger Car Association said Tuesday. Sales declined 32% from December, remaining at historically low levels, the CPCA added.

China's Xi Is Building an Economic Fortress Against U.S. Pressure

A day in China could easily start like this: Roll out of bed and swipe through WeChat messages on your Huawei smartphone. Hop into a BYD electric car and drive to the railroad station, where a high-speed train from a state-run factory whisks you to your destination. Chinese-designed nuclear plants, solar farms and wind turbines power the city's lights.

China is racing to make itself less reliant on the outside world's products and technology-part of a yearslong effort by leader Xi Jinping to make China more self-sufficient and impervious to Western pressure as tensions with the U.S. rise. Beijing has poured hundreds of billions of dollars into favored industries, especially in high-end manufacturing, while exhorting business leaders to fall in line with the government's priorities.

Democrats in Disarray as Trump Pushes Through Agenda

WASHINGTON-Democratic governors used a private phone call with Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer to push him to be tougher on President Trump. A text thread with current and former elected officials is blowing up with frustration. Lawmakers disagree on the political lessons from the election.

Three weeks into the second Trump term, Democrats are struggling to find their way.

Trump Warns Hamas to Free All Hostages by Saturday

President Trump warned Hamas to free all the hostages held in Gaza by Saturday, hours after the Palestinian militant group said it would postpone this week's scheduled release amid a dispute over goods needed to provide shelter for the enclave's displaced population.

"As far as I'm concerned, if all of the hostages aren't returned by Saturday at 12 o'clock-I think it's an appropriate time-I would say, cancel it and all bets are off and let hell break out," Trump told reporters in the Oval Office on Monday.

New Restraints at Education Department Jam Civil Rights Enforcement

Civil rights enforcement at the U.S. Department of Education has slowed in recent weeks, with some staff in the office that handles cases being told they can't communicate externally, according to people within the agency.

The Office for Civil Rights is charged with enforcing bans on discrimination based on sex, race, age and disability status in schools and universities nationwide. Families can file a complaint if their child is, for instance, denied access to a school field trip because of a disability. Civil rights staffers normally communicate with schools and families to investigate and resolve complaints.

Write to gareth.mcpherson@wsj.com

TODAY IN CANADA

Earnings:

Cineplex 4Q

Comp Modelling 3Q

First Quantum Minerals 4Q

Intact Financial 4Q

International Petroleum 4Q

NanoXplore 2Q

OrganiGram Holdings 1Q

Shopify 4Q

Silvercorp Metals 3Q

Toromont Industries 4Q

WildBrain 2Q

Economic Indicators (ET):

0830 Building permits for Dec

Stocks to Watch:

Acadian Timber Announces Acquisition Of Harvesting Operations In Maine; Signed Agreement to Buy Assets of A&A Brochu and Its Affiliates for $4.8M on Feb. 10; Assets Include Harvesting, Trucking, Road Building Equipment, Real Estate in Millinocket, Maine; Expects Transaction to Close During 1Q 2025

S&PGR Revises WCG Intermediate Outlook To Positive; 'B-' ICR Affirmed

Parkland Acknowledges Ontario Superior Court of Justice's Decision Saying Simpson Oil Is No Longer Bound by Voting and Standstill Restrictions in 2019 Governance Agreement; Has Always Been Open to Representation From Simpson Oil on Board; Decision Does Not Change Stance; Remains Focused on Executing Long-Term Strategy, Maximizing Shareholder Value

Rogers Communications Announces Pricing of US$2.1B Fixed-to-Fixed Rate Subordinated Notes; Offering Comprises US$1.1B of 7.0% Fixed-to-Fixed Rate Notes Due 2055, US$1.0B of 7.125% Fixed-to-Fixed Notes Due 2055; Announces Pricing of Private Placement of C$1.0B of 5.625% Fixed-to-Fixed Subordinated Notes Due 2055; Plan to Use Proceeds to Repay Debt, Fund Part of Pending Acquisition of BCE's Stake in Maple Leaf Sports & Entertainment; Note Offerings Are Expected to Close Feb. 12

Expected Major Events for Tuesday

00:01/UK: Jan BRC-KPMG Retail Sales Monitor

00:01/UK: Jan UK Nations and Regions Growth Tracker

06:30/FRA: 4Q ILO Unemployment and Labour Market-related indicators

11:00/US: Jan NFIB Index of Small Business Optimism

13:30/CAN: Dec Building permits

13:55/US: 02/08 Johnson Redbook Retail Sales Index

17:00/US: World Agricultural Supply & Demand Estimates (WASDE)

21:30/US: API Weekly Statistical Bulletin

23:50/JPN: Jan Money Stock, Broadly-defined Liquidity

All times in GMT. Powered by Kantar Media and Dow Jones.

Expected Earnings for Tuesday

Akoustis Technologies Inc (AKTS) is expected to report $-0.25 for 2Q.

Arvinas Inc (ARVN) is expected to report $-0.96 for 4Q.

AutoNation Inc (AN) is expected to report $4.26 for 4Q.

Carlyle Group Inc (CG) is expected to report $0.94 for 4Q.

Carrier Global Corp (CARR) is expected to report $0.42 for 4Q.

Carver Bancorp Inc (CARV) is expected to report for 3Q.

Cineplex Inc (CGX.T,CPXGF) is expected to report for 4Q.

Coca-Cola Co (KO) is expected to report $0.51 for 4Q.

CorVel Corp (CRVL) is expected to report for 3Q.

Curbline Properties Corp (CURB) is expected to report for 4Q.

DuPont de Nemours Inc (DD) is expected to report $0.90 for 4Q.

Ecolab Inc (ECL) is expected to report $1.75 for 4Q.

Enterprise Group Inc (E.T) is expected to report for 4Q.

Fidelity National Information Services Inc (FIS) is expected to report $0.76 for 4Q.

GlobalFoundries Inc (GFS) is expected to report $0.36 for 4Q.

Humana Inc (HUM) is expected to report $-2.32 for 4Q.

International Petroleum Corp (IPCO.T) is expected to report $0.40 for 4Q.

Krispy Kreme Inc (DNUT) is expected to report $0.04 for 4Q.

LCI Industries (LCII) is expected to report $0.26 for 4Q.

Leidos Holdings Inc (LDOS) is expected to report $2.06 for 4Q.

Marriott International Inc (MAR) is expected to report $2.27 for 4Q.

Masco Corp (MAS) is expected to report $0.87 for 4Q.

Mullen Automotive Inc (MULN) is expected to report for 1Q.

Netlist Inc (NLST) is expected to report $-0.04 for 4Q.

OrganiGram Holdings Inc (OGI,OGI.T) is expected to report for 1Q.

Orion Energy Systems (OESX) is expected to report $-0.05 for 3Q.

Peoples Bancorp of North Carolina Inc (PEBK) is expected to report for 4Q.

Royalty Pharma PLC (RPRX) is expected to report $0.21 for 4Q.

S&P Global Inc (SPGI) is expected to report $2.61 for 4Q.

Shopify Inc (SHOP,SHOP.T) is expected to report $0.48 for 4Q.

Smart Share Global Ltd - ADR (EM) is expected to report for 3Q.

SolarWinds Corp (SWI) is expected to report $0.11 for 4Q.

Spirit AeroSystems Holdings Inc (SPR) is expected to report $-1.43 for 4Q.

Sunoco LP (SUN) is expected to report $0.67 for 4Q.

TPG Inc (TPG) is expected to report $0.53 for 4Q.

Tel Instrument Electronics Corp (TIKK) is expected to report for 3Q.

TerraVest Industries Inc (TVK.T) is expected to report for 1Q.

USA Compression Partners LP (USAC) is expected to report $0.24 for 4Q.

WK Kellogg Co (KLG) is expected to report $0.22 for 4Q.

Wesco International Inc (WCC) is expected to report $3.26 for 4Q.

Powered by Kantar Media and Dow Jones.

ANALYST RATINGS ACTIONS

Agilent Raised to Equal-Weight From Underweight by Barclays

Altus Power Cut to Neutral From Buy by UBS

Annovis Bio Cut to Hold From Buy by D. Boral Capital

Aspen Technology Raised to Buy From Hold by Loop Capital

Atkore Cut to Hold From Buy by Loop Capital

ConocoPhillips Cut to Outperform From Strong Buy by Raymond James

Illumina Cut to Underweight From Equal-Weight by Barclays

Kraft Heinz Cut to Neutral From Outperform by Mizuho Securities

MACOM Technology Raised to Outperform From Market Perform by Northland Capital Markets

Merck & Co Inc Cut to Hold From Buy by TD Securities

Morgan Stanley Says Tariffs, Sanctions Could Present Downside Risk for Oil — OPIS

NetApp Cut to Neutral From Positive by Susquehanna

Pliant Therapeutics Cut to Equal-Weight From Overweight by Wells Fargo

Pliant Therapeutics Cut to Hold From Buy by Canaccord Genuity

Pliant Therapeutics Cut to Neutral From Buy by Citigroup

Pliant Therapeutics Cut to Neutral From Buy by HC Wainwright & Co.

Pliant Therapeutics Cut to Neutral From Overweight by JP Morgan

Pliant Therapeutics Cut to Sector Perform From Outperform by RBC Capital

Waters Corp Raised to Equal-Weight From Underweight by Barclays

WesBanco Raised to Outperform From Market Perform by Keefe, Bruyette & Woods

This article is a text version of a Wall Street Journal newsletter published earlier today.

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250211002989:0/)
