---
title: "Global Equities Roundup: Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-13 21:18:00"
summary: "The latest Market Talks covering Equities. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.0818 ET - Demand for stablecoins, or cryptocurrencies that are pegged to another asset like the dollar, could rise further on more crypto-friendly regulation, UBS Global Wealth Management analysts say in a note. The Trump administration's..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The latest Market Talks covering Equities. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.

0818 ET - Demand for stablecoins, or cryptocurrencies that are pegged to another asset like the dollar, could rise further on more crypto-friendly regulation, UBS Global Wealth Management analysts say in a note. The Trump administration's pro-crypto stance could result in greater regulatory clarity and oversight, they say. This could result in increased adoption and greater involvement from major U.S. banks. The EU's MicA regulation could also boost stablecoin adoption. Meanwhile, established fintech platforms like PayPal are integrating stablecoins into their platforms and this could see other financial service providers follow suit. "Several banks are looking at stablecoins as a way to streamline payments and reduce frictions and costs in cross-border transactions, but also to defend their existing business against possible market entrants." (renae.dyer@wsj.com)

0750 ET - British American Tobacco's pledge to become a smokeless business by 2035 raises questions about its ability to replace the revenue and cash flow provided by the sale of cigarettes, AJ Bell investment director Russ Mould says in a note. The segment is what allows the tobacco company to reward shareholders with generous dividends and share buybacks, he says. The new category products, which includes vapes and e-cigarettes, had a contribution of 250 million pounds to adjusted operating profit in 2024, from a total of almost 12 billion pounds. "This clearly illustrates the size of the task over the next decade better than the company's observation that these areas of the business are now contributing some 17.5% of revenue," Mould adds. Shares are down 7.5% at 31.40 pounds. (michael.susin@wsj.com)

0738 ET - Legrand's earnings beat and full-year 2025 guidance are reassuring, especially given the company's typically cautious stance and recent concerns over its growth profile versus peers, Bryan Garnier analyst Antoine Lebourgeois says in a note.The results reinforce the thesis that the French company's data-center business remains undervalued, Lebourgeois says. Nevertheless, given the lack of improving sentiment in core construction markets, Legrand's exposure to building markets will continue to constrain its growth profile relative to key electrical peers, the analyst adds. (maitane.sardon@wsj.com)

0731 ET - Telus' mobile segment continued to see the pressure of increased competition for fewer new subscribers in 4Q. Mobile average revenue per unit fell 3.6% to C$58.05 due to lower-priced base rate plans "in response to more intense marketing and promotional price competition targeting both new and existing customers." Gross mobile additions were down 22,000 to 523,000 which it says is due to decelerating growth in the Canadian population and a greater emphasis on premium and profitable loading. "The deceleration in immigration growth, observed later in 2024, is limiting our ability to add to our subscriber base," it says. (adriano.marchese@wsj.com)

0724 ET - Gold futures rise close to all-time highs on safe-haven and central bank demand. Futures rise 0.7% to $2,948.40 a troy ounce, close to the record $2,968.50 a troy ounce set during Tuesday's session. The precious metal has had a strong rally in the year-to-date, surpassing the above-consensus expectations of MUFG, analysts say in a note. The yellow metal is now closing in on $3,000 an ounce, which the Japanese bank had estimated would take until the third quarter of 2025. Gold's brisk start has much further to run, MUFG analysts say. Demand reflects both market fears around elevated geopolitical and economic uncertainties, driving safe-haven demand, and emerging market central bank demand, catalyzed by sanctions worries and risks of trade tariffs, MUFG says. (joseph.hoppe@wsj.com)

0724 ET - Bitcoin edges lower as it struggles for renewed upward momentum in the absence of fresh positive drivers, Zaye Capital Markets analyst Naeem Aslam says in a note. There's no particular reason for bitcoin's current fall but investors are lacking a catalyst that can push the cryptocurrency to new meaningful highs, he says. The main focus is on the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission's decision regarding Grayscale Investments' application to convert its XRP Trust into a spot exchange traded fund. The SEC is expected to acknowledge the ETF Thursday. If approved, the impact on bitcoin could be "slightly positive as it would confirm a more open environment" for trading, Aslam says. Bitcoin falls 1.7% to $96,020, according to LSEG. (renae.dyer@wsj.com)

0707 ET - The NATO alliance must increase defense spending, not only because the U.S. is demanding it, but because "the threat coming from Russia and other adversaries is increasing," NATO's Secretary General Mark Rutte tells reports in Brussels. There is a "clear convergence" emerging among NATO members on the need to end the Ukraine-Russia war as soon as possible, and strengthen Ukraine ahead of potential ceasefire talks, he says. It is crucial that Ukraine is involved in any such talks, Rutte adds. Most European defense stocks are rising in midday trade, after some decreases in the early morning following a call between U.S. President Donald Trump and Russian President Vladimir Putin. BAE Systems' shares advance 2.9%, Rheinmetall shares are up 1.95%, shares in Leonardo rise 1.5% and Hensoldt shares are up 0.8%. (cristina.gallardo@wsj.com)

0658 ET - Novartis's multiple patent expirations and limited pipeline readouts in 2025 pose major challenges for the Swiss drugmaker, UBS analysts say in a note. Novartis's heart drug Entresto, leukemia treatment Tasigna and blood clotting medicine Promacta will loose their patent in the U.S. in 2025 which will lead to a sharp deceleration in growth at mid-year, UBS analysts estimate. In addition, its expected key 2025 readout for its cardiovascular drug Pelacarsen has been delayed to 1H 2026 on a lower event rate, reducing output of clinical studies in 2025, they say. UBS downgrades its rating of the stock to neutral from buy. Shares fall 0.4% to 97.44 euros. (helena.smolak@wsj.com)

0643 ET - Roche is set for sustainable revenue and earnings growth, driven by in-market assets coupled with broad pipeline potential, UBS analysts say in a note. The Swiss pharma giant sees near-term growth from outperforming sales of eye drug Vabysmo and multiple-sclerosis treatment Ocrevus, UBS analysts say in a note. They consider the label extension for MS drug Ocrevus HD, Alzheimer drug trontinemab and its oral obesity candidate as key catalysts of its late-stage pipeline, with a $16 billion revenue potential. UBS upgrades its rating on the stock to buy from neutral. Shares are up 1.1% at 294.80 euros. (helena.smolak@wsj.com)

0624 ET - Nestle reported a better-than-expected performance in 2024 but warned of pressures on its margins in 2025, AJ Bell investment director Russ Mould says in a note. The company is dealing with a sharp increase in cocoa and coffee prices, the key ingredients for its core products, he says. Raising product prices to pass on such cost increases could be dangerous, Mould adds. Hence, the guidance for lower margins in 2025 implies that Nestle is "going to stomach some of the pain itself", he adds. Shares are up 6.2% at 83.68 Swiss francs. (michael.susin@wsj.com)

0619 ET - Unilever guidance is especially weak, as subdued consumers and rising commodity prices are taking a toll, Chris Beckett, head of equity research at Quilter Cheviot, writes. Consumers simply aren't spending as they were in the aftermath of the pandemic, and an uncertain economic environment has caused consumers to pull back, with discretionary items the first to go, he says. Beckett says it was hoped that Unilever was embarking on a sustained turnaround, and although it might still be happening, it will take longer than hoped. "Unilever may be right in that the second half of 2025 will be better, but a lot can change between now and then, especially given the political and economic upheaval we are witnessing." Shares fall 7.4% to 44.01 pounds. (dominic.chopping@wsj.com)

0605 ET - Unibail-Rodamco-Westfield's decision to keep its U.S. assets makes sense from an industrial perspective, but it means the company's balance sheet will remain stretched, AlphaValue's Christian Auzanneau says. The French commercial-real-estate company said it would retain its flagship properties in the U.S., vowing to reduce debt through sales of noncore assets, earnings and disciplined spending. This contradicts the debt-reduction strategy outlined in 2020 and a rapid return to prepandemic dividend levels now seems unlikely, the analyst says. However, keeping the U.S. assets should be beneficial for URW's operations as long as the U.S. economy stays strong, AlphaValue says. Shares fall 3.1%. (adria.calatayud@wsj.com)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250213009271:0/)
