---
title: "News Highlights: Top Company News of the Day - Thursday at 11 AM ET"
date: "2025-02-14 00:15:00"
summary: "Meta Offers Rivals Paid Ad Spaces on Marketplace Under EU PressureMeta Platforms is rolling out a new partnership program to appease European Union antitrust regulators that will let rival classified advertisement companies list ads on Facebook Marketplace in the EU.Honda, Nissan End Merger Talks, Leaving Nissan to Seek Other PartnersThe..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

**Meta Offers Rivals Paid Ad Spaces on Marketplace Under EU Pressure**

Meta Platforms is rolling out a new partnership program to appease European Union antitrust regulators that will let rival classified advertisement companies list ads on Facebook Marketplace in the EU.

**Honda, Nissan End Merger Talks, Leaving Nissan to Seek Other Partners**

The chief executives of the two automakers, at separate news conferences, traded jabs about Honda's bid to change the terms of the deal.

**Musk Says He Will Pull Bid if OpenAI Remains a Nonprofit**

The unsolicited offer has complicated OpenAI CEO Sam Altman's plans for the ChatGPT maker's future.

**Barclays Guides For Growth After Quarterly Beat**

The lender expects an increase in profitability this year after group revenue rose 24%, boosted by its investment bank and its domestic retail division.

**Crocs 4Q Results Beat Estimate with Lift from Heydude Brand**

Crocs posted higher-than-expected results in its fourth quarter led in part by stability at its Heydude brand, bolstering confidence that turnaround efforts are panning out.

**Nestle Posts Weakest Sales Growth in More Than Two Decades**

A pullback from budget-conscious shoppers is hurting Nestle, but the company said there are early signs of progress in reviving sales growth.

**Deere Beats Earnings Estimates but the Stock Is Dropping. Here's Why.**

Deere maintains its financial guidance, saying it expects large-equipment sales to decline by 30% in the U.S. in fiscal 2025.

**GE HealthCare Stock Is Rising on Strong Earnings and Outlook**

The medical-imaging company issues solid guidance for 2025.

**Commerzbank to Cut Jobs in Bid to Boost Returns and Fend off UniCredit**

The lender plans to lay off around 9% of its workforce to boost returns and convince investors of its standalone prospects.

**Condé Nast, McClatchy and Other Publishers Accuse AI Firm Cohere of Copyright Violations**

The lawsuit accuses the Canadian company of sharing versions of entire articles without permission.

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250213011627:0-news-highlights-top-company-news-of-the-day-thursday-at-11-am-et/)
