---
title: "Here's How Much Trump's Steel Tariffs Could Raise Car Prices — Barrons.com"
date: "2025-02-11 00:15:00"
summary: "Al RootPresident Donald Trump has promised to impose 25% tariffs on imports of steel and aluminum.Steel stocks were up in early trading Monday. The prospects of higher prices are why. Car stocks, however, were down. Higher steel prices mean higher costs — and potentially higher prices for new-car buyers.Cleveland-Cliffs stock..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Al Root

President Donald Trump has promised to impose 25% tariffs on imports of steel and aluminum.

Steel stocks were up in early trading Monday. The prospects of higher prices are why. Car stocks, however, were down. Higher steel prices mean higher costs — and potentially higher prices for new-car buyers.

Cleveland-Cliffs stock was up 12.3% at $11.27 in early trading, while the S&P 500 and Dow Jones Industrial Average were up 0.6% and 0.4%, respectively. General Motors and Ford Motor shares were down 1.1% and 0.2%, respectively. Tesla shares were off 0.7% at $359.08.

The U.S. imports roughly 20% of its steel needs, which is some 100 million tons annually. About 40% of the 20% comes from the U.S. and Mexico.

Baird machinery analyst Mig Dobre wrote Sunday that steel accounts for about 20% of the cost of heavy machinery. "The 2018 tariff resulted in price increases in the 4%-to-6% range as a result," he added.

Dobre is talking about Caterpillar and Deere. It's a reasonable rule of thumb for cars, too. That implies a price increase of almost $2,000 for a typical car or a 4% increase. The average car cost a U.S. buyer about $49,000 in December.

Based on weight alone — a car is roughly 50% to 60% metal — the increase might be closer to $1,000. Benchmark steel prices are about $750 a ton, but that is the price of hot-rolled coil. That is a precursor product to the type of steel that becomes door panels and hoods on a Chevy Blazer.

To be sure, a lot more goes into steel prices than levies on imports. Hot-rolled coil prices ranged from roughly $1,000-$1,500 per ton from 2021 to 2022, when steel-company profits were much higher. The industrial economy was much stronger back then. Over the past couple of years, inflation, rising interest rates, and inventory destocking have tamped down manufacturing activity.

Car makers will try, of course, to offset cost increases, but the outlook for the industry isn't as strong as it was in 2022. Operating profits are expected to be about 33% lower in 2025 compared with then.

(Auto profits were higher when steel prices were higher.)

The long-term impact of tariffs on metals pricing is difficult to suss out. They have been tried several times in the recent past. President George W. Bush put in place tariffs between 2002 and 2003. President Donald Trump initiated tariffs in 2018. Several countries, including Canada and Mexico, were able to get exemptions from the levies. President Joe Biden imposed tariffs on a range of Chinese products, including steel, in 2024.

As for cars, the average new car is roughly $10,000 more today than it was in December 2019, before the pandemic, although steel prices haven't changed much.

President Trump said he would announce the new tariffs on Monday, along with what he described as "reciprocal tariffs" on Tuesday or Wednesday on countries that have imposed levies on U.S.-made goods.

The trade war isn't going away. Investors and companies will have to get used to understanding the tariffs and what can be done to mitigate their impact.

Write to Al Root at allen.root@dowjones.com

This content was created by Barron's, which is operated by Dow Jones & Co. Barron's is published independently from Dow Jones Newswires and The Wall Street Journal.

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250210007299:0/)
