---
title: "BP Announces Strategy Reset to Focus on Cash Flow, Returns — Update"
date: "2025-02-11 16:20:00"
summary: "By Adam WhittakerBP said profit fell more than expected and that it would reset its strategy, days after reports that activist hedge fund Elliott Management is pushing for change at the company.The British oil and gas giant's Chief Executive Murray Auchincloss said the company would continue to reshape its portfolio..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Adam Whittaker

BP said profit fell more than expected and that it would reset its strategy, days after reports that activist hedge fund Elliott Management is pushing for change at the company.

The British oil and gas giant's Chief Executive Murray Auchincloss said the company would continue to reshape its portfolio and has made strong progress in cutting costs. BP now plans to change its strategy in order to grow cash flow and shareholder returns, and will present its strategy at its capital markets day scheduled for Feb. 26.

"Building on the actions taken in the last 12 months, we now plan to fundamentally reset our strategy and drive further improvements in performance, all in service of growing cash flow and returns," Auchincloss said. "It will be a new direction for bp."

The comments follow reports over the weekend that activist hedge fund Elliott Management has built up a stake in the company and will push for changes to boost shareholder value.

BP's latest quarter was impacted by weak refining margins, lower seasonal volumes and higher costs associated with its turnaround activity, leading to lower-than-expected profit for the company.

Underlying replacement cost profit--a similar metric to net income that U.S. oil companies report--was $1.17 billion for the fourth quarter. This compared with $1.26 billion analysts had expected, according to a company-compiled consensus, and $2.27 billion reported in the third quarter.

Cash flow from operations was $7.43 billion compared with the $6.76 billion in the previous quarter.

It booked a $2 billion net loss compared with a profit of $200 million the prior quarter as the business booked $1.5 billion worth of impairments.

While BP confirmed Tuesday it would launch a $1.75 billion quarterly share buyback, it said it would review its 2025 target and announce its expectations as part of its capital markets day.

BP's European peers have maintained buybacks and hiked dividends despite weak oil prices and refining margins, as cash-flow generation remains high. In recent weeks, London-listed rival Shell said it would buy back shares worth $3.5 billion while France's TotalEnergies set a $2 billion quarterly share buyback target for 2025.

BP's oil products and operations division reported $2.92 billion in underlying RC profit before interest and tax compared with $2.52 billion analysts had expected. The division benefited from lower exploration write-offs but this was partly offset by lower sales and volumes, the company said.

Earnings within its gas and low carbon division were $1.99 billion compared with analysts expectations of $1.82 billion as it was boosted by higher sales, the company said.

Write to Adam Whittaker at adam.whittaker@wsj.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250211001603:0-bp-announces-strategy-reset-to-focus-on-cash-flow-returns-update/)
