---
title: "Carrier Reports Strong 2024 Results and Announces 2025 Outlook"
date: "2025-02-11 19:30:00"
summary: "Carrier Reports Strong 2024 Results and Announces 2025 OutlookPR NewswirePALM BEACH GARDENS, Fla., Feb. 11, 2025Fourth Quarter 2024 HighlightsSales of $5.1 billion, up 19% compared to 2023 including 6% organic growth GAAP EPS from continuing operations of ($0.05); adjusted EPS from continuing operations of $0.54 up 50% Operating margin expansion..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Carrier Reports Strong 2024 Results and Announces 2025 Outlook

PR Newswire

PALM BEACH GARDENS, Fla., Feb. 11, 2025

Fourth Quarter 2024 Highlights

* Sales of $5.1 billion, up 19% compared to 2023 including 6% organic growth
* GAAP EPS from continuing operations of ($0.05); adjusted EPS from continuing operations of $0.54 up 50%
* Operating margin expansion of 250 basis points and adjusted operating margin expansion of 370 basis points

Full Year 2024 Highlights

* Sales of $22.5 billion, up 19% compared to 2023 including 3% organic growth
* GAAP EPS from continuing operations of $1.22; adjusted EPS from continuing operations of $2.56 up 16%
* Operating margin expansion of 40 basis points and adjusted operating margin expansion of 180 basis points
* Returned $2.6 billion to shareholders, including $0.7 billion in dividends and $1.9 billion shares repurchased

PALM BEACH GARDENS, Fla., Feb. 11, 2025 /PRNewswire/ — Carrier Global Corporation , global leader in intelligent climate and energy solutions, today reported strong financial results for the fourth quarter and full year of 2024.

"We capped a transformational year for Carrier with robust fourth quarter financial results including 6% organic growth, significant adjusted operating profit margin expansion of 370 basis points and 50% adjusted EPS growth. The quarter also marked the completion of our portfolio transformation, which resulted in total divestiture proceeds of over $10 billion," said Carrier Chairman & CEO David Gitlin. "We successfully acquired and integrated Viessmann Climate Solutions in 2024, giving us the most comprehensive and differentiated global portfolio in our industry. We are well-positioned to deliver strong results in 2025, reinforced by our growing global commercial HVAC backlog supported by the acceleration in data centers, commitment to double-digit aftermarket growth, and leading positions across our businesses. We remain laser focused on delivering value for our customers, employees and shareholders."

Fourth Quarter 2024 Results

Carrier's fourth quarter sales of $5.1 billion increased 19% versus the prior year, including 6% organic growth and a 13% net contribution from acquisitions and divestitures.

Sales in the HVAC segment increased 11% organically. Americas sales were up high-teens organically driven by continued strength in Commercial and North America Residential, both up double-digits, partially offset by declines in Light Commercial. EMEA sales were flat organically, with double-digit growth in Commercial offsetting a decline in Residential and Light Commercial. Asia Pacific sales were slightly positive, driven by strength in Japan and South Asia partially offset by declines in residential light commercial in China.

Refrigeration sales were down 6% organically, mostly driven by declines in North America truck and trailer, with flat sales growth across the remainder of the segment.

GAAP operating profit in the quarter of $774 million was up 44% from last year, primarily due to the gain on the sale of Commercial Refrigeration. Adjusted operating profit of $678 million from continuing operations increased 65%, driven by the contribution of Viessmann Climate Solutions, the benefit of organic growth, and productivity.

GAAP net loss from continuing operations was $48 million primarily driven by a tax charge of approximately $650 million related to an internal business re-organization which was more than offset by a related tax benefit recorded in discontinued operations. Adjusted net earnings from continuing operations was $492 million. GAAP EPS and adjusted EPS from continuing operations were ($0.05) and $0.54, respectively.

Full-Year 2024 Results

Carrier's 2024 sales of $22.5 billion increased 19% compared to the prior year including organic sales growth of 3% and a 16% impact from acquisitions and divestitures. GAAP operating profit of $2.6 billion from continuing operations increased 23%. Adjusted operating profit of $3.5 billion from continuing operations increased 34%, driven by the addition of Viessmann Climate Solutions and strong operational performance.

GAAP net earnings and adjusted net earnings from continuing operations were $1.1 billion and $2.3 billion, respectively. GAAP EPS and adjusted EPS from continuing operations were $1.22 and $2.56, respectively.

Full-Year 2025 Guidance

The Company projects accelerated organic growth in 2025 supported by secular tailwinds, continued innovation and double-digit aftermarket growth.

* Mid-single digit organic\* growth; Reported sales of $22.5 -- $23.0 billion
* Commercial Refrigeration divestiture represents a $750 million sales headwind versus prior year
* Adjusted operating margin\* of 16.5% -- 17.0%, up 100 basis points compared to 2024
* Adjusted EPS\* of $2.95 -- $3.05, up mid to high-teens
* Free cash flow\* of $2.4 -- $2.6 billion
* Expect to repurchase $3 billion in shares 2025 Guidance ---------------------------------------------

```
Sales                          $22.5 -- $23.0 billion   
                     $750 million revenue headwind from CCR exit   
                                   Organic* up MSD   
                                       FX (1%)   
                                   Acquisitions 0%   
                                  Divestitures (3%)   
   
Adjusted Operating                 16.5% -- 17.0%   
 Margin*                            + 100 bps Y/Y   
   
Adjusted EPS*                      $2.95 -- $3.05   
                                    + 15-20% Y/Y   
   
Free Cash Flow*                 $2.4 -- $2.6 billion   
------------------  ---------------------------------------------   
   
   
*Note: When the company provides expectations for organic sales, adjusted   
operating profit, adjusted operating margin, adjusted EPS and free cash flow   
on a forward-looking basis, a reconciliation of the differences between the   
non-GAAP expectations and the corresponding GAAP measures generally is not   
available without unreasonable effort. See "Use and Definitions of Non-GAAP   
Financial Measures" below for additional information.   
 
```

Conference Call

Carrier will host a webcast of its earnings conference call today, Tuesday, February 11, 2025, at 7:30 a.m. ET. To access the webcast, visit the Events & Presentations section of the Carrier Investor Relations site at ir.carrier.com/news-and-events/events-and-presentations or to listen to the earnings call by phone, participants must pre-register at Carrier Earnings Call Registration. All registrants will receive dial-in information and a PIN allowing access to the live call.

Discontinued Operations

In 2023, the Company announced plans to exit its Fire & Security and Commercial Refrigeration businesses over the course of 2024. The announced plan to exit the Fire & Security segment represented a single disposal plan to separately divest multiple businesses over different reporting periods. Upon the Commercial and Residential Fire Business qualifying as held for sale during the three months ended September 30, 2024, the components of the Fire & Security segment in aggregate met the criteria to be presented as discontinued operations in the Company's unaudited condensed consolidated statement of operations and unaudited condensed consolidated statement of cash flows. In addition, the assets and liabilities of the Commercial and Residential Fire Business have been reclassified to held for sale at December 31, 2023. The results of the Commercial Refrigeration business did not meet the criteria to be presented in discontinued operations. Accordingly, all financial measures presented herein, including non-GAAP financial measures, are associated with Carrier's continuing operations unless specifically noted. See "Use and Definitions of Non-GAAP Financial Measures" below.

Cautionary Statement

This communication contains statements which, to the extent they are not statements of historical or present fact, constitute "forward-looking statements" under the securities laws. These forward-looking statements are intended to provide management's current expectations or plans for Carrier's future operating and financial performance, based on assumptions currently believed to be valid. Forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of words such as "believe," "expect," "expectations," "plans," "strategy," "prospects," "estimate," "project," "target," "anticipate," "will," "should," "see," "guidance," "outlook," "confident," "scenario" and other words of similar meaning in connection with a discussion of future operating or financial performance. Forward-looking statements may include, among other things, statements relating to future sales, earnings, cash flow, results of operations, uses of cash, share repurchases, tax rates and other measures of financial performance or potential future plans, strategies or transactions of Carrier, Carrier's plans with respect to its indebtedness and other statements that are not historical facts. All forward-looking statements involve risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements. For additional information on identifying factors that may cause actual results to vary materially from those stated in forward-looking statements, see Carrier's reports on Forms 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K filed with or furnished to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission from time to time. Any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date on which it is made, and Carrier assumes no obligation to update or revise such statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by applicable law.

About Carrier Carrier Global Corporation, global leader in intelligent climate and energy solutions, is committed to creating solutions that matter for people and our planet for generations to come. From the beginning, we've led in inventing new technologies and entirely new industries. Today, we continue to lead because we have a world-class, diverse workforce that puts the customer at the center of everything we do. For more information, visit corporate.carrier.com or follow Carrier on social media at @Carrier.

CARR-IR

```
   
Contact:   Investor Relations   
           Michael Rednor   
           561-365-2020   
           Investor.Relations@Carrier.com   
   
           Media Inquiries   
           Jason Shockley   
           561-542-0207   
           Jason.Shockley@Carrier.com   
 
```

SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA, NON-GAAP MEASURES AND DEFINITIONS

Following are tables that present selected financial data of Carrier Global Corporation. Also included are reconciliations of non-GAAP measures to their most comparable GAAP measures.

Use and Definitions of Non-GAAP Financial Measures

Carrier Global Corporation ("we" or "our") reports its financial results in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States ("GAAP"). We supplement the reporting of our financial information determined under GAAP with certain non-GAAP financial information. The non-GAAP information presented provides investors with additional useful information, but should not be considered in isolation or as substitutes for the related GAAP measures. Moreover, other companies may define non-GAAP measures differently, which limits the usefulness of these measures for comparisons with such other companies. We encourage investors to review our financial statements and publicly filed reports in their entirety and not to rely on any single financial measure. A reconciliation of the non-GAAP measures to the corresponding amounts prepared in accordance with GAAP appears in the tables in this Appendix. The tables provide additional information as to the items and amounts that have been excluded from the adjusted measures.

Organic sales, adjusted operating profit, adjusted operating margin, incremental margins / earnings conversion, earnings before interest, taxes and depreciation and amortization ("EBITDA"), adjusted EBITDA, adjusted net earnings (loss), adjusted earnings per share ("EPS"), adjusted interest expense, net, adjusted effective tax rate and net debt are non-GAAP financial measures and are associated with Carrier's continuing operations unless specifically noted.

Organic sales represents consolidated net sales (a GAAP measure), excluding the impact of foreign currency translation, acquisitions and divestitures completed in the preceding twelve months and other significant items of a nonoperational nature (hereinafter referred to as "other significant items"). Adjusted operating profit represents operating profit (a GAAP measure), excluding restructuring costs, amortization of acquired intangibles and other significant items. Adjusted operating margin represents adjusted operating profit as a percentage of net sales (a GAAP measure). Incremental margins / earnings conversion represents the year-over-year change in adjusted operating profit divided by the year-over-year change in net sales. EBITDA represents net earnings (loss) attributable to common shareholders (a GAAP measure), adjusted for interest income and expense, income tax expense, and depreciation and amortization. Adjusted EBITDA represents EBITDA, as calculated above, excluding non-service pension benefit, non-controlling interest in subsidiaries' earnings from operations, restructuring costs and other significant items. Adjusted net earnings (loss) represents net earnings (loss) attributable to common shareowners (a GAAP measure), excluding restructuring costs, amortization of acquired intangibles and other significant items. Adjusted EPS represents diluted earnings per share (a GAAP measure), excluding restructuring costs, amortization of acquired intangibles and other significant items. Adjusted interest expense, net represents interest expense (a GAAP measure) and interest income (a GAAP measure), net excluding other significant items. The adjusted effective tax rate represents the effective tax rate (a GAAP measure), excluding restructuring costs, amortization of acquired intangibles and other significant items. Net debt represents long-term debt (a GAAP measure) less cash and cash equivalents (a GAAP measure). For the business segments, when applicable, adjustments of operating profit and operating margins represent operating profit, excluding restructuring, amortization of acquired intangibles and other significant items.

Free cash flow is a non-GAAP financial measure that represents net cash flows provided by operating activities (a GAAP measure) less capital expenditures. Management believes free cash flow is a useful measure of liquidity and an additional basis for assessing our ability to fund its activities, including the financing of acquisitions, debt service, repurchases of our common stock and distribution of earnings to shareowners.

Orders are contractual commitments with customers to provide specified goods or services for an agreed upon price and may not be subject to penalty if cancelled.

When we provide our expectations for organic sales, adjusted operating profit, adjusted operating margin, adjusted interest expense, net, adjusted effective tax rate, incremental margins/earnings conversion, adjusted EPS and free cash flow on a forward-looking basis, a reconciliation of the differences between the non-GAAP expectations and the corresponding GAAP measures (expected net sales, operating profit, operating margin, interest expense, effective tax rate, incremental operating margin, diluted EPS and net cash flows provided by operating activities) generally is not available without unreasonable effort due to potentially high variability, complexity and low visibility as to the items that would be excluded from the GAAP measure in the relevant future period, such as unusual gains and losses, the ultimate outcome of pending litigation, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, the impact and timing of potential acquisitions and divestitures, future restructuring costs, and other structural changes or their probable significance. The variability of the excluded items may have a significant, and potentially unpredictable, impact on our future GAAP results.

```
   
                                    Carrier Global Corporation   
                                Consolidated Statement of Operations   
   
                                                     (Unaudited)   
                              Three Months Ended                           Year Ended   
                                 December 31,                             December 31,   
                   ----------------------------------------  --------------------------------------   
(In millions,   
except per share   
amounts)                  2024                 2023                 2024                2023   
-----------------  -------------------  -------------------  ------------------  ------------------   
Net sales   
 Product sales      $            4,530   $            3,726    $         19,990    $         16,665   
 Service sales                     618                  590               2,496               2,286   
                   -------------------  -------------------  ------------------  ------------------   
   Total Net   
    sales                        5,148                4,316              22,486              18,951   
                   -------------------  -------------------  ------------------  ------------------   
Costs and   
expenses   
 Cost of products   
  sold                         (3,335)              (2,733)            (14,580)            (12,002)   
 Cost of services   
  sold                           (469)                (466)             (1,925)             (1,787)   
 Research and   
  development                    (162)                (138)               (686)               (493)   
 Selling, general   
  and   
  administrative                 (803)                (737)             (3,197)             (2,607)   
                   -------------------  -------------------  ------------------  ------------------   
   Total Costs   
    and expenses               (4,769)              (4,074)            (20,388)            (16,889)   
 Equity method   
  investment net   
  earnings                          44                   40                 231                 211   
 Other income   
  (expense), net                   351                  257                 317               (113)   
                   -------------------  -------------------  ------------------  ------------------   
Operating profit                   774                  539               2,646               2,160   
 Non-service   
  pension benefit   
  (expense)                         --                  (1)                 (1)                 (1)   
 Interest   
  (expense)   
  income, net                     (81)                 (34)               (371)               (160)   
                   -------------------  -------------------  ------------------  ------------------   
Earnings before   
 income taxes                      693                  504               2,274               1,999   
 Income tax   
  (expense)   
  benefit                        (723)                 (68)             (1,062)               (521)   
                   -------------------  -------------------  ------------------  ------------------   
Earnings from   
 continuing   
 operations                       (30)                  436               1,212               1,478   
 Discontinued   
  operations, net   
  of tax                         2,599                    3               4,496                (38)   
                   -------------------  -------------------  ------------------  ------------------   
Net earnings   
 (loss)             $            2,569  $               439   $           5,708   $           1,440   
 Less:   
  Non-controlling   
  interest in   
  subsidiaries'                     18                   19                 104                  91   
                   -------------------  -------------------  ------------------  ------------------   
Net earnings   
 (loss)   
 attributable to   
 common   
 shareowners                     2,551                  420               5,604               1,349   
                   ===================  ===================  ==================  ==================   
Amounts   
attributable to   
common   
shareowners:   
 Continuing   
  operations                      (48)                  417               1,108               1,387   
 Discontinued   
  operations                     2,599                    3               4,496                (38)   
                   -------------------  -------------------  ------------------  ------------------   
Net earnings   
 (loss)   
 attributable to   
 common   
 shareowners                     2,551                  420               5,604               1,349   
                   -------------------  -------------------  ------------------  ------------------   
Earnings per   
share   
 Basic:   
   Continuing   
    operations     $            (0.05)  $              0.50  $             1.23  $             1.66   
   Discontinued   
    operations                    2.92                   --                5.01              (0.05)   
                   -------------------  -------------------  ------------------  ------------------   
   Net earnings   
    (loss)         $              2.87  $              0.50  $             6.24  $             1.61   
                   -------------------  -------------------  ------------------  ------------------   
 Diluted:   
   Continuing   
    operations     $            (0.05)  $              0.49  $             1.22  $             1.63   
   Discontinued   
    operations                    2.87                   --                4.93              (0.05)   
                   -------------------  -------------------  ------------------  ------------------   
   Net earnings   
    (loss)         $              2.82  $              0.49  $             6.15  $             1.58   
                   -------------------  -------------------  ------------------  ------------------   
Weighted-average   
number of shares   
outstanding   
 Basic                           890.1                839.6               898.2               837.3   
 Diluted                         903.4                854.2               911.7               853.0   
   
   
   
                                    Carrier Global Corporation   
                                Consolidated Statement of Operations   
   
                                                     (Unaudited)   
                              Three Months Ended                           Year Ended   
                                 December 31,                             December 31,   
                   ----------------------------------------  --------------------------------------   
(In millions,   
except per share   
amounts)                  2024                 2023                 2024                2023   
-----------------  -------------------  -------------------  ------------------  ------------------   
Net sales   
 Product sales      $            4,530   $            3,726    $         19,990    $         16,665   
 Service sales                     618                  590               2,496               2,286   
                   -------------------  -------------------  ------------------  ------------------   
   Total Net   
    sales                        5,148                4,316              22,486              18,951   
                   -------------------  -------------------  ------------------  ------------------   
Costs and   
expenses   
 Cost of products   
  sold                         (3,335)              (2,733)            (14,580)            (12,002)   
 Cost of services   
  sold                           (469)                (466)             (1,925)             (1,787)   
 Research and   
  development                    (162)                (138)               (686)               (493)   
 Selling, general   
  and   
  administrative                 (803)                (737)             (3,197)             (2,607)   
                   -------------------  -------------------  ------------------  ------------------   
   Total Costs   
    and expenses               (4,769)              (4,074)            (20,388)            (16,889)   
 Equity method   
  investment net   
  earnings                          44                   40                 231                 211   
 Other income   
  (expense), net                   351                  257                 317               (113)   
                   -------------------  -------------------  ------------------  ------------------   
Operating profit                   774                  539               2,646               2,160   
 Non-service   
  pension benefit   
  (expense)                         --                  (1)                 (1)                 (1)   
 Interest   
  (expense)   
  income, net                     (81)                 (34)               (371)               (160)   
                   -------------------  -------------------  ------------------  ------------------   
Earnings before   
 income taxes                      693                  504               2,274               1,999   
 Income tax   
  (expense)   
  benefit                        (723)                 (68)             (1,062)               (521)   
                   -------------------  -------------------  ------------------  ------------------   
Earnings from   
 continuing   
 operations                       (30)                  436               1,212               1,478   
 Discontinued   
  operations, net   
  of tax                         2,599                    3               4,496                (38)   
                   -------------------  -------------------  ------------------  ------------------   
Net earnings   
 (loss)             $            2,569  $               439   $           5,708   $           1,440   
 Less:   
  Non-controlling   
  interest in   
  subsidiaries'                     18                   19                 104                  91   
                   -------------------  -------------------  ------------------  ------------------   
Net earnings   
 (loss)   
 attributable to   
 common   
 shareowners                     2,551                  420               5,604               1,349   
                   ===================  ===================  ==================  ==================   
Amounts   
attributable to   
common   
shareowners:   
 Continuing   
  operations                      (48)                  417               1,108               1,387   
 Discontinued   
  operations                     2,599                    3               4,496                (38)   
                   -------------------  -------------------  ------------------  ------------------   
Net earnings   
 (loss)   
 attributable to   
 common   
 shareowners                     2,551                  420               5,604               1,349   
                   -------------------  -------------------  ------------------  ------------------   
Earnings per   
share   
 Basic:   
   Continuing   
    operations     $            (0.05)  $              0.50  $             1.23  $             1.66   
   Discontinued   
    operations                    2.92                   --                5.01              (0.05)   
                   -------------------  -------------------  ------------------  ------------------   
   Net earnings   
    (loss)         $              2.87  $              0.50  $             6.24  $             1.61   
                   -------------------  -------------------  ------------------  ------------------   
 Diluted:   
   Continuing   
    operations     $            (0.05)  $              0.49  $             1.22  $             1.63   
   Discontinued   
    operations                    2.87                   --                4.93              (0.05)   
                   -------------------  -------------------  ------------------  ------------------   
   Net earnings   
    (loss)         $              2.82  $              0.49  $             6.15  $             1.58   
                   -------------------  -------------------  ------------------  ------------------   
Weighted-average   
number of shares   
outstanding   
 Basic                           890.1                839.6               898.2               837.3   
 Diluted                         903.4                854.2               911.7               853.0   
   
   
   
                         Carrier Global Corporation   
                         Consolidated Balance Sheet   
   
                                                      (Unaudited)   
                                            --------------------------------   
                                                   As of December 31,   
(In millions)                                   2024             2023   
------------------------------------------  -------------  -----------------   
Assets   
------------------------------------------   
Cash and cash equivalents                   $       3,969  $           9,852   
Accounts receivable, net                            2,651              2,080   
Inventories, net                                    2,299              1,823   
Assets held for sale                                   --              5,093   
Other assets, current                                 972                728   
                                            -------------  -----------------   
 Total current assets                               9,891             19,576   
Future income tax benefits                          1,131                718   
Fixed assets, net                                   2,999              2,160   
Operating lease right-of-use assets                   554                421   
Intangible assets, net                              6,432                945   
Goodwill                                           14,601              7,520   
Pension and post-retirement assets                     43                 32   
Equity method investments                           1,194              1,140   
Other assets                                          558                310   
                                            -------------  -----------------   
 Total Assets                                $     37,403   $         32,822   
Liabilities and Equity   
------------------------------------------   
Accounts payable                            $       2,458  $           2,483   
Accrued liabilities                                 4,182              2,997   
Liabilities held for sale                              --              1,450   
Current portion of long-term debt                   1,252                 51   
                                            -------------  -----------------   
 Total current liabilities                          7,892              6,981   
Long-term debt                                     11,026             14,242   
Future pension and post-retirement   
 obligations                                          214                149   
Future income tax obligations                       2,015                523   
Operating lease liabilities                           432                333   
Other long-term liabilities                         1,429              1,589   
                                            -------------  -----------------   
 Total Liabilities                                 23,008             23,817   
                                            -------------  -----------------   
   
Equity   
 Common stock, par value $0.01;   
  4,000,000,000 shares authorized;   
  948,068,772 and 883,068,393 shares   
  issued; 878,337,677 and 839,910,275   
  outstanding as of December 31, 2024 and   
  2023, respectively                                    9                  9   
 Treasury stock                                   (3,915)            (1,972)   
 Additional paid-in capital                         8,610              5,535   
 Retained earnings                                 11,483              6,591   
 Accumulated other comprehensive loss             (2,106)            (1,486)   
Non-controlling interest                              314                328   
                                            -------------  -----------------   
 Total Equity                                      14,395              9,005   
                                            -------------  -----------------   
 Total Liabilities and Equity                $     37,403   $         32,822   
------------------------------------------  -------------  -----------------   
   
   
                         Carrier Global Corporation   
                    Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows   
   
                                                  (Unaudited)   
                                    ----------------------------------------   
                                            Year Ended December 31,   
                                    ----------------------------------------   
(In millions)                              2024                 2023   
----------------------------------  -------------------  -------------------   
Operating Activities   
 Net earnings (loss)                $             5,708  $             1,440   
 Discontinued operations, net of   
  tax                                           (4,496)                   38   
 Adjustments for non-cash items,   
 net:   
 Depreciation and amortization                    1,232                  491   
 Deferred income tax provision                    (352)                (243)   
 Stock-based compensation cost                       86                   71   
 Equity method investment net   
  earnings                                        (231)                (211)   
 (Gain) loss on extinguishment of   
 debt                                              (82)                   --   
 (Gain) loss on sale of   
  investments / deconsolidation                   (322)                 (19)   
 Changes in operating assets and   
 liabilities   
 Accounts receivable, net                          (40)                (161)   
 Inventories, net                                   292                  123   
 Accounts payable and accrued   
  liabilities                                        87                  541   
 Distributions from equity method   
  investments                                        46                  129   
 Other operating activities, net                  (357)                   53   
                                    -------------------  -------------------   
 Net cash flows provided by (used   
  in) continuing operating   
  activities                                      1,571                2,252   
 Net cash flows provided by (used   
  in) discontinued operating   
  activities                                    (1,008)                  355   
                                    -------------------  -------------------   
 Net cash flows provided by (used   
  in) operating activities                          563                2,607   
                                    -------------------  -------------------   
Investing Activities   
 Capital expenditures                             (519)                (439)   
 Investment in businesses, net of   
  cash acquired                                (10,890)                 (84)   
 Dispositions of businesses                         634                   54   
 Settlement of derivative   
  contracts, net                                  (264)                 (50)   
 Other investing activities, net                     14                   15   
                                    -------------------  -------------------   
 Net cash flows provided by (used   
  in) continuing investing   
  activities                                   (11,025)                (504)   
 Net cash flows provided by (used   
  in) discontinued investing   
  activities                                      9,000                (156)   
                                    -------------------  -------------------   
 Net cash flows provided by (used   
  in) investing activities                      (2,025)                (660)   
                                    -------------------  -------------------   
Financing Activities   
 (Decrease) increase in short-term   
  borrowings, net                                    50                  (5)   
 Issuance of long-term debt                       3,412                5,609   
 Repayment of long-term debt                    (5,345)                (111)   
 Repurchases of common stock                    (1,944)                 (62)   
 Dividends paid on common stock                   (670)                (620)   
 Dividends paid to non-controlling   
  interest                                         (84)                 (58)   
 Other financing activities, net                   (30)                (121)   
                                    -------------------  -------------------   
 Net cash flows provided by (used   
  in) continuing financing   
  activities                                    (4,611)                4,632   
 Net cash flows provided by (used   
  in) discontinued financing   
  activities                                       (25)                 (20)   
                                    -------------------  -------------------   
 Net cash flows provided by (used   
  in) financing activities                      (4,636)                4,612   
                                    -------------------  -------------------   
Effect of foreign exchange rate   
 changes on cash and cash   
 equivalents                                      (103)                   88   
                                    -------------------  -------------------   
 Net increase (decrease) in cash   
  and cash equivalents and   
  restricted cash, including cash   
  classified in  current assets   
  held for sale                                 (6,201)                6,647   
Less: Change in cash balances   
 classified as assets held for   
 sale                                             (320)                   97   
                                    -------------------  -------------------   
Net increase (decrease) in cash   
 and cash equivalents and   
 restricted cash                                (5,881)                6,550   
Cash, cash equivalents and   
 restricted cash, beginning of   
 period                                           9,853                3,303   
                                    -------------------  -------------------   
Cash, cash equivalents and   
 restricted cash, end of period                   3,972                9,853   
 Less: restricted cash                                3                    1   
                                    -------------------  -------------------   
Cash and cash equivalents, end of   
 period                             $             3,969  $             9,852   
----------------------------------  -------------------  -------------------   
   
   
                                        Carrier Global Corporation   
                                  Segment Net Sales and Operating Profit   
   
                                                        (Unaudited)   
                 -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------   
                        Three Months Ended December 31,                  Year Ended December 31,   
                 ---------------------------------------------  ------------------------------------------   
                         2024                    2023                   2024                  2023   
                 ---------------------  ----------------------  --------------------  --------------------   
(In millions)     Reported   Adjusted    Reported    Adjusted   Reported   Adjusted   Reported   Adjusted   
---------------  ----------  ---------  ----------  ----------  ---------  ---------  ---------  ---------   
Net sales   
 HVAC             $   4,509  $   4,509   $   3,293   $   3,293   $ 19,078   $ 19,078   $ 15,139   $ 15,139   
 Refrigeration          680        680       1,024       1,024      3,475      3,475      3,818      3,818   
                 ----------  ---------  ----------  ----------  ---------  ---------  ---------  ---------   
Segment sales         5,189      5,189       4,317       4,317     22,553     22,553     18,957     18,957   
Eliminations   
 and other             (41)       (41)         (1)         (1)       (67)       (67)        (6)        (6)   
                 ----------  ---------  ----------  ----------  ---------  ---------  ---------  ---------   
Net sales         $   5,148  $   5,148   $   4,316   $   4,316   $ 22,486   $ 22,486   $ 18,951   $ 18,951   
                 ==========  =========  ==========  ==========  =========  =========  =========  =========   
   
Operating   
profit   
 HVAC            $      451    $   658  $      335  $      397  $   2,308  $   3,370  $   2,275  $   2,511   
 Refrigeration          396         82         101         108        715        416        428        449   
                 ----------  ---------  ----------  ----------  ---------  ---------  ---------  ---------   
Segment   
 operating   
 profit                 847        740         436         505      3,023      3,786      2,703      2,960   
Eliminations   
 and other             (11)        (4)         224        (38)       (95)       (42)      (200)       (91)   
General   
 corporate   
 expenses              (62)       (58)       (121)        (56)      (282)      (202)      (343)      (220)   
                 ----------  ---------  ----------  ----------  ---------  ---------  ---------  ---------   
Operating   
 profit          $      774    $   678  $      539  $      411  $   2,646  $   3,542  $   2,160  $   2,649   
                 ==========  =========  ==========  ==========  =========  =========  =========  =========   
   
Operating margin   
 HVAC                10.0 %     14.6 %      10.2 %      12.1 %     12.1 %     17.7 %     15.0 %     16.6 %   
 Refrigeration       58.2 %     12.1 %       9.9 %      10.5 %     20.6 %     12.0 %     11.2 %     11.8 %   
Total Carrier        15.0 %     13.2 %      12.5 %       9.5 %     11.8 %     15.8 %     11.4 %     14.0 %   
---------------  ----------  ---------  ----------  ----------  ---------  ---------  ---------  ---------   
   
   
                                                  Carrier Global Corporation   
                                    Reconciliation of Reported (GAAP) to Adjusted (Non-GAAP)   
                                                        Operating Profit   
   
                                                                           (Unaudited)   
                                   --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------   
                                                               Three Months Ended December 31, 2024   
                                   --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------   
                                                                                                  General   
                                                                           Eliminations           Corporate   
(In millions)                           HVAC          Refrigeration          and Other            Expenses          Carrier   
---------------------------------  ---------------  ------------------  -------------------  ------------------  --------------   
Net sales                             $      4,509    $            680   $             (41)   $              --    $      5,148   
   
Segment operating profit             $         451    $            396   $             (11)   $            (62)   $         774   
 Reported operating margin                  10.0 %              58.2 %                                                   15.0 %   
   
Adjustments to segment operating   
profit:   
 Restructuring costs               $             1  $                3  $                 7   $              --  $           11   
 Amortization of acquired   
  intangibles                                  172                  --                   --                  --             172   
 Acquisition step-up amortization   
  (1)                                           30                   1                   --                  --              31   
 Acquisition/divestiture-related   
  costs                                          4                  --                   --                   4               8   
 CCR gain                                       --               (318)                   --                  --           (318)   
                                   ---------------  ------------------  -------------------  ------------------  --------------   
Total adjustments to operating   
 profit                              $         207    $          (314)  $                 7  $                4  $         (96)   
                                   ---------------  ------------------  -------------------  ------------------  --------------   
   
 Adjusted operating profit           $         658   $              82  $               (4)   $            (58)   $         678   
                                   ---------------  ------------------  -------------------  ------------------  --------------   
Adjusted operating margin                   14.6 %              12.1 %                                                   13.2 %   
---------------------------------  ---------------  ------------------  -------------------  ------------------  --------------   
   
   
                                                                          (Unaudited)   
                                   ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------   
                                                              Three Months Ended December 31, 2023   
                                   ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------   
                                                                                                 General   
                                                                          Eliminations          Corporate   
(In millions)                           HVAC         Refrigeration          and Other            Expenses         Carrier   
---------------------------------  --------------  ------------------  -------------------  -----------------  --------------   
Net sales                            $      3,293     $         1,024  $               (1)  $              --    $      4,316   
   
Segment operating profit            $         335    $            101    $             224   $          (121)   $         539   
 Reported operating margin                 10.2 %               9.9 %                                                  12.5 %   
   
Adjustments to segment operating   
profit:   
 Restructuring costs               $           17  $                7  $                 8  $              --  $           32   
 Amortization of acquired   
  intangibles                                  35                  --                   --                 --              35   
 Acquisition step-up amortization   
  (1)                                          10                  --                   --                 --              10   
 Acquisition/divestiture-related   
  costs                                        --                  --                   --                 65              65   
 Bridge loan financing costs                   --                  --                    2                 --               2   
 Viessmann-related hedges                      --                  --                (272)                 --           (272)   
                                   --------------  ------------------  -------------------  -----------------  --------------   
Total adjustments to operating   
 profit                            $           62  $                7    $           (262)  $              65   $       (128)   
                                   --------------  ------------------  -------------------  -----------------  --------------   
   
 Adjusted operating profit          $         397    $            108   $             (38)  $            (56)   $         411   
                                   --------------  ------------------  -------------------  -----------------  --------------   
Adjusted operating margin                  12.1 %              10.5 %                                                   9.5 %   
---------------------------------  --------------  ------------------  -------------------  -----------------  --------------   
   
   
(1) Amortization of the step-up to fair value of acquired inventory and   
backlog.   
   
   
                                                 Carrier Global Corporation   
                                  Reconciliation of Reported (GAAP) to Adjusted (Non-GAAP)   
                                                      Operating Profit   
   
                                                                          (Unaudited)   
                                   -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------   
                                                                 Year Ended December 31, 2024   
                                   -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------   
                                                                                                 General   
                                                                          Eliminations          Corporate   
(In millions)                           HVAC         Refrigeration          and Other            Expenses         Carrier   
---------------------------------  --------------  ------------------  -------------------  -----------------  -------------   
Net sales                             $    19,078     $         3,475  $              (67)  $              --    $    22,486   
   
Segment operating profit             $      2,308    $            715  $              (95)   $          (282)   $      2,646   
 Reported operating margin                 12.1 %              20.6 %                                                 11.8 %   
   
Adjustments to segment operating   
profit:   
 Restructuring costs               $           87  $                8  $                13  $              --  $         108   
 Amortization of acquired   
  intangibles                                 689                  --                   --                 --            689   
 Acquisition step-up amortization   
  (1)                                         281                   1                   --                 --            282   
 Acquisition/divestiture-related   
  costs                                         5                  10                   --                 80             95   
 CCR gain                                      --               (318)                   --                 --          (318)   
 Viessmann-related hedges                      --                  --                   86                 --             86   
 Gain on liability adjustment (2)              --                  --                 (46)                 --           (46)   
                                   --------------  ------------------  -------------------  -----------------  -------------   
Total adjustments to operating   
 profit                              $      1,062    $          (299)  $                53  $              80  $         896   
                                   --------------  ------------------  -------------------  -----------------  -------------   
   
 Adjusted operating profit           $      3,370    $            416  $              (42)   $          (202)   $      3,542   
                                   --------------  ------------------  -------------------  -----------------  -------------   
Adjusted operating margin                  17.7 %              12.0 %                                                 15.8 %   
---------------------------------  --------------  ------------------  -------------------  -----------------  -------------   
   
   
   
                                                                          (Unaudited)   
                                   ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------   
                                                                  Year Ended December 31, 2023   
                                   ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------   
                                                                                                 General   
                                                                          Eliminations          Corporate   
(In millions)                           HVAC         Refrigeration          and Other            Expenses         Carrier   
---------------------------------  --------------  -----------------  --------------------  -----------------  --------------   
Net sales                             $    15,139    $         3,818  $                (6)  $              --     $    18,951   
   
Segment operating profit             $      2,275   $            428    $            (200)   $          (343)    $      2,160   
 Reported operating margin                 15.0 %             11.2 %                                                   11.4 %   
   
Adjustments to segment operating   
profit:   
 Restructuring costs               $           44  $              21   $                10  $              --  $           75   
 Amortization of acquired   
  intangibles                                 143                 --                    --                 --             143   
 Acquisition step-up amortization   
  (1)                                          41                 --                    --                 --              41   
 Acquisition/divestiture-related   
  costs                                        --                 --                    --                123             123   
 Bridge loan financing costs                   --                 --                     3                 --               3   
 TCC acquisition-related gain (3)               8                 --                    --                 --               8   
 Viessmann-related hedges                      --                 --                    96                 --              96   
                                   --------------  -----------------  --------------------  -----------------  --------------   
Total adjustments to operating   
 profit                             $         236  $              21    $              109   $            123   $         489   
                                   --------------  -----------------  --------------------  -----------------  --------------   
   
 Adjusted operating profit           $      2,511   $            449   $              (91)   $          (220)    $      2,649   
                                   --------------  -----------------  --------------------  -----------------  --------------   
Adjusted operating margin                  16.6 %             11.8 %                                                   14.0 %   
---------------------------------  --------------  -----------------  --------------------  -----------------  --------------   
   
   
(1) Amortization of the step-up to fair value of acquired inventory and   
backlog.   
(2) Gain associated with an adjustment to our tax-related liability owed to   
UTC.   
(3) The carrying value of our previously held TCC equity investments were   
recognized at fair value and subsequently adjusted.   
   
   
                                                   Carrier Global Corporation   
                                 Reconciliation of Reported (GAAP) to Adjusted (Non-GAAP) Results   
                                 Net Earnings (Loss), Earnings Per Share, and Effective Tax Rate   
   
                                                                            (Unaudited)   
                                        Three Months Ended December 31, 2024                 Year Ended December 31, 2024   
                                  -------------------------------------------------  --------------------------------------------   
(In millions, except per share   
amounts)                           Reported       Adjustments            Adjusted    Reported      Adjustments          Adjusted   
--------------------------------  -----------  ------------------      ------------  ---------  ------------------      ---------   
Net sales                           $   5,148  $               --        $    5,148   $ 22,486  $               --       $ 22,486   
   
Operating profit                   $      774                (96)  a    $       678   $  2,646                 896  a    $  3,542   
Operating margin                       15.0 %                                13.2 %     11.8 %                             15.8 %   
   
                                                                   a,                                               a,   
Earnings before income taxes       $      693                (87)  b    $       606   $  2,274                 831  b    $  3,105   
Income tax (expense) benefit       $    (723)                 627  c   $       (96)  $ (1,062)                 400  c   $   (662)   
Effective tax rate                    104.3 %                                15.8 %     46.7 %                             21.3 %   
   
Earnings from continuing   
 operations attributable to   
 common shareowners               $      (48)   $             540       $       492   $  1,108    $          1,231       $  2,339   
                                  ===========  ==================      ============  =========  ==================      =========   
   
Summary of Adjustments:   
Restructuring costs                            $               11  a                             $             108  a   
Amortization of acquired   
 intangibles                                                  172  a                                           689  a   
Acquisition step-up amortization   
 (1)                                                           31  a                                           282  a   
Acquisition/divestiture-related   
 costs                                                          8  a                                            95  a   
CCR gain                                                    (318)  a                                         (318)  a   
Viessmann-related hedges                                       --  a                                            86  a   
Gain on liability adjustment (2)                               --  a                                          (46)  a   
Debt extinguishment (gain)                                     --  b                                          (97)  b   
Debt prepayment costs                                           9  b                                            32  b   
                                               ------------------                               ------------------   
 Total adjustments                             $             (87)                                $             831   
                                               ==================                               ==================   
   
Tax effect on adjustments above                $             (35)                                $           (262)   
Tax specific adjustments (3)                                  662                                              662   
 Total tax adjustments                          $             627  c                             $             400  c   
                                               ==================                               ==================   
   
Diluted shares outstanding              903.4                                 903.4      911.7                              911.7   
   
Diluted earnings per share:   
 Continuing operations             $   (0.05)                           $      0.54  $    1.22                          $    2.56   
--------------------------------  -----------  ------------------      ------------  ---------  ------------------      ---------   
   
   
(1) Amortization of the step-up to fair value of acquired inventory and   
backlog.   
(2) Gain associated with an adjustment to our tax-related liability owed to   
UTC.   
(3) Tax expense associated with the integration of the Viessmann and Carrier   
legal entity structure.   
   
   
                                                     Carrier Global Corporation   
                                   Reconciliation of Reported (GAAP) to Adjusted (Non-GAAP) Results   
                                   Net Earnings (Loss), Earnings Per Share, and Effective Tax Rate   
   
                                                                              (Unaudited)   
                                         Three Months Ended December 31, 2023                   Year Ended December 31, 2023   
                                  ---------------------------------------------------  ----------------------------------------------   
(In millions, except per share   
amounts)                           Reported        Adjustments            Adjusted      Reported      Adjustments           Adjusted   
--------------------------------  -----------  -------------------      -------------  ----------  ------------------      ----------   
Net sales                           $   4,316   $               --        $     4,316    $ 18,951  $               --        $ 18,951   
   
Operating profit                   $      539                (128)  a    $        411   $   2,160                 489  a    $   2,649   
Operating margin                       12.5 %                                   9.5 %      11.4 %                              14.0 %   
   
                                                                    a,                                                 a,   
Earnings before income taxes       $      504                (111)  b    $        393   $   1,999                 538  b    $   2,537   
Income tax (expense) benefit      $      (68)                  (3)  c   $        (71)  $    (521)                (47)  c   $    (568)   
Effective tax rate                     13.5 %                                  18.1 %      26.1 %                              22.4 %   
   
Earnings from continuing   
 operations attributable to   
 common shareowners                $      417    $           (114)       $        303   $   1,387   $             491       $   1,878   
                                  ===========  ===================      =============  ==========  ==================      ==========   
   
Summary of Adjustments:   
Restructuring costs                             $               32  a                              $               75  a   
Amortization of acquired   
 intangibles                                                    35  a                                             143  a   
Acquisition step-up amortization   
 (1)                                                            10  a                                              41  a   
Acquisition/divestiture-related   
 costs                                                          65  a                                             123  a   
Viessmann-related hedges                                     (272)  a                                              96  a   
TCC acquisition-related gain (2)                                --  a                                               8  a   
                                                                    a,                                                 a,   
Bridge loan financing costs (3)                                 19  b                                              52  b   
                                               -------------------                                 ------------------   
 Total adjustments                               $           (111)                                  $             538   
                                               ===================                                 ==================   
   
Tax effect on adjustments above                 $             (20)                                 $             (83)   
Tax specific adjustments                                        17                                                 36   
 Total tax adjustments                         $               (3)  c                              $             (47)  c   
                                               ===================                                 ==================   
   
Diluted shares outstanding              854.2                                   854.2       853.0                               853.0   
   
Diluted earnings per share:   
 Continuing operations             $     0.49                            $       0.36  $     1.63                          $     2.20   
--------------------------------  -----------  -------------------      -------------  ----------  ------------------      ----------   
   
   
(1) Amortization of the step-up to fair value of acquired inventory and   
backlog.   
(2) The carrying value of our previously held TCC equity investments were   
recognized at fair value and subsequently adjusted.   
(3) Includes commitment fees recognized in Operating profit.   
   
   
                      Carrier Global Corporation   
   Reconciliation of Reported (GAAP) to Adjusted (Non-GAAP) Results   
Components of Changes in Net Sales Three Months Ended December 31,   
2024 Compared with Three Months Ended December 31, 2023   
----------------------------------------------------------------------   
   
                                     (Unaudited)   
                ------------------------------------------------------   
                 Factors Contributing to Total % change in Net Sales   
                ------------------------------------------------------   
                                         Acquisitions   
                                              /   
                                FX       Divestitures   
                 Organic    Translation     , net      Other    Total   
--------------  ----------  -----------  ------------  ------  -------   
HVAC               11 %        -- %          26 %       -- %    37 %   
Refrigeration     (6) %        -- %         (27) %      -- %   (33) %   
 Consolidated      6 %         -- %          13 %       -- %    19 %   
--------------  ----------  -----------  ------------  ------  -------   
   
   
Year Ended December 31, 2024 Compared with Year Ended December 31,   
2023   
----------------------------------------------------------------------   
   
                                     (Unaudited)   
                ------------------------------------------------------   
                 Factors Contributing to Total % change in Net Sales   
                ------------------------------------------------------   
                                           Acquisitions   
                                                 /   
                                 FX        Divestitures,   
                 Organic     Translation        net       Other  Total   
--------------  ---------  --------------  -------------  -----  -----   
HVAC               5 %          -- %           21 %       -- %   26 %   
Refrigeration     (1) %         -- %           (8) %      -- %   (9) %   
 Consolidated      3 %          -- %           16 %       -- %   19 %   
--------------  ---------  --------------  -------------  -----  -----   
   
   
Free Cash Flow Reconciliation   
   
                                            (Unaudited)   
                          ------------------------------------------------   
                                             Year Ended   
                                            December 31,   
                          ------------------------------------------------   
(In millions)                       2024                     2023   
-----------------------   ------------------------  ----------------------   
Net cash flows provided   
 by operating   
 activities                $                   563  $                2,607   
Less: Capital   
 expenditures -   
 continuing operations                       (519)                   (439)   
Less: Capital   
 expenditures -   
 discontinued   
 operations                                   (14)                    (30)   
                          ------------------------  ----------------------   
Free cash flow            $                     30  $                2,138   
------------------------  ------------------------  ----------------------   
   
   
Net Debt Reconciliation   
   
                                        (Unaudited)   
                  --------------------------------------------------------   
                                     As of December 31,   
                  --------------------------------------------------------   
(In millions)                2024                         2023   
---------------   ---------------------------  ---------------------------   
Long-term debt     $                   11,026   $                   14,242   
Current portion   
 of long-term   
 debt                                   1,252                           51   
Less: Cash and   
 cash   
 equivalents                            3,969                        9,852   
                  ---------------------------  ---------------------------   
 Net debt         $                     8,309  $                     4,441   
----------------  ---------------------------  ---------------------------   
   
   
                       Carrier Global Corporation   
     Reconciliation of Reported (GAAP) to Adjusted (Non-GAAP) Results   
Discontinued operations, net of tax Reconciliation   
   
                                                       (Unaudited)   
                                                -------------------------   
                                                       Year Ended   
                                                       December 31,   
                                                -------------------------   
(In millions, except per share amounts)                   2024   
---------------------------------------------   -------------------------   
Discontinued operations, net of tax              $                  4,496   
   
Summary of adjustments, net of tax:   
 Divestiture-related costs                      $                     154   
 Restructuring                                                         15   
 Gain on sale of discontinued businesses                          (5,176)   
 AFFF legal reserve                                                   565   
 Tax specific adjustments                                             250   
                                                -------------------------   
Total adjustments                                $                (4,192)   
                                                =========================   
   
Adjusted Discontinued operations, net of tax    $                     304   
Adjusted diluted earnings per share             $                    0.34   
----------------------------------------------  -------------------------   
   
   
Diluted EPS Reconciliation - Adjusted   
   
                                  (Unaudited)   
                           -------------------------   
                                  Year Ended   
                                  December 31,   
                           -------------------------   
                                     2024   
------------------------   -------------------------   
Continuing operations      $                    2.56   
Discontinued operations                         0.34   
                           -------------------------   
 Total                     $                    2.90   
-------------------------  -------------------------   
 
```

View original content to download multimedia:https://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/carrier-reports-strong-2024-results-and-announces-2025-outlook-302373390.html

SOURCE Carrier Global Corporation

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250211003090:0/)
