---
title: "Commerzbank to Cut Jobs in Bid to Boost Returns and Fend off UniCredit — 2nd Update"
date: "2025-02-13 21:54:00"
summary: "By Elena VardonCommerzbank plans to cut thousands of jobs in a bid to boost profitability and shareholder returns as it fends off an unwanted approach from Italy's UniCredit.The German lender outlined a new strategy to defend its independence and convince investors of its standalone prospects as UniCredit's attempts to engineer..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Elena Vardon

Commerzbank plans to cut thousands of jobs in a bid to boost profitability and shareholder returns as it fends off an unwanted approach from Italy's UniCredit.

The German lender outlined a new strategy to defend its independence and convince investors of its standalone prospects as UniCredit's attempts to engineer a merger are slowed down by political opposition and pending elections.

The Frankfurt-based bank said Thursday that the revamp includes plans to cut 3,900 full-time positions by the end of the 2027, with most of the job reductions set to affect central staff functions and operations in Germany. That represents about 9% of the 42,312 people it employed in total--including contractors--at the end of 2024, according to its website.

The bank said it would rely primarily on aging workers and attrition.

Commerzbank is targeting a 15% return on tangible equity by 2028, which is ahead of a previous target of more than 12% for 2027 and 9.2% reported in 2024.

"This means that the bank will earn significantly more than its cost of capital and be a well-established player amongst the successful banks in Europe," Chief Executive Bettina Orlopp said.

Commerzbank guided for a net result of 4.2 billion euros ($4.36 billion) by 2028 with 14.2 billion euros in revenue, drawing on a boost to income from fees to offset slowing growth in net interest income as central banks trim rates.

This compares with last year's net result of 2.68 billion euros on 11.11 billion euros in revenue and a cost-to-income ratio of 59%.

For 2025, Commerzbank expects net interest income to land in the 7.7 billion to 7.9 billion euro range, with annual net commission income growth of 7%. It also forecast a decline in its net result to 2.4 billion euros after restructuring charges, which it estimates will amount to 700 million euros.

The lender also promised to reward shareholders by returning the entirety of its profit in the years to come. For 2024, it is paying out 71% of its net result after deducting debt obligations from so-called AT1 bonds, a ratio that it aims to increase to 100% between 2026 and 2028. For 2025, Commerzbank is targeting a ratio of 100% before restructuring charges.

Orlopp, previously the bank's finance chief, took on the top job late last year, shortly after UniCredit had set its sights on Commerzbank to complement its existing German bank and extend into Poland.

UniCredit built up a 28% stake in its peer mostly through derivatives, surpassing the German government as its largest shareholder. Chief Executive Andrea Orcel said he is waiting until after Germany's federal elections later this month to reassess UniCredit's options for the investment in Commerzbank and engage with the new government before making a move.

Orlopp rules out informal talks with the Italian lender.

"The train has left the station," she said. "We would only take the step if we had a rough idea of ​​what our counterparty wanted to discuss with us."

Any takeover discussions would probably have to be made public immediately, she added.

Meanwhile, the bank strives for selective smaller takeovers itself as well as strategic partnerships. Commerzbank separately said it is expanding its partnership with Visa to cooperate on payment offerings.

"An independent Commerzbank is very important to our medium-sized customers," Orlopp said. The bank is key lender for small and medium-size companies in Germany.

Shares rose as much as 2.6% in midday European trading before paring some gains. The stock has gained 80% over the past 12 months.

* Matthias Goldschmidt contributed to this article.

Write to Elena Vardon at elena.vardon@wsj.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250213009892:0/)
