---
title: "BP Touts 'New Beginning,' Fundamental Change in Strategy — Commodities Roundup"
date: "2025-02-12 00:33:00"
summary: "MARKET MOVEMENTS:Brent crude oil is up 1.3% at $76.85 a barrelEuropean benchmark gas is down 1.5% at 57.11 euros a megawatt-hourGold futures are flat at $2,934.20 a troy ounceLME three-month copper futures are down 1% at $9,363.50 a metric tonTOP STORY:BP Touts 'New Beginning,' Fundamental Change in StrategyBP will reset..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

MARKET MOVEMENTS:

* Brent crude oil is up 1.3% at $76.85 a barrel
* European benchmark gas is down 1.5% at 57.11 euros a megawatt-hour
* Gold futures are flat at $2,934.20 a troy ounce
* LME three-month copper futures are down 1% at $9,363.50 a metric ton

TOP STORY:

BP Touts 'New Beginning,' Fundamental Change in Strategy

BP will reset its strategy with a new direction for the oil major, days after reports that activist hedge fund Elliott Management has taken a stake in the company with plans to push for changes to boost shareholder returns.

While neither news of the shareholding, nor Elliott's plans for the company have been confirmed, BP's Chief Executive Murray Auchincloss is expected to jettison his predecessors low carbon strategy in favor of core oil-and-gas assets.

"We now plan to fundamentally reset our strategy and drive further improvements in performance, all in service of growing cash flow and returns," Auchincloss said, adding that the new direction for the company will be put to shareholders at the capital markets day on Feb. 26.

OTHER STORIES:

Trump Imposes Global 25% Steel, Aluminum Tariffs

President Trump on Monday announced 25% tariffs on imports of steel and aluminum to the U.S., reinstating global duties without exceptions for allies such as Canada, Mexico, Japan and South Korea that were relaxed by the Biden administration.

"It's a big deal. This is the beginning of making America rich again," Trump said in the Oval Office, as he signed dual executive orders for steel and aluminum tariffs. "No exceptions, no nothing," Trump added.

--

Canada's Trudeau Pushes 'Firm and Clear' Response to U.S. Tariffs on Steel, Aluminum

Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau said Tuesday he would speak to other Western allies about plotting a "firm and clear" response to the U.S.'s 25% tariff on all imported steel and aluminum.

In Paris for a conference on artificial intelligence, Trudeau told reporters the levy on metals from Canada is "entirely unjustified," as steel and aluminum from Canada is shipped to the U.S. to be used in the production of military equipment, ships, vehicles and other manufactured goods.

--

Activist Elliott Ratchets Up Pressure on Phillips 66 With Over $2.5 Billion Stake

Activist Elliott Investment Management on Tuesday disclosed a stake in Phillips 66 valued at more than $2.5 billion and said it is pushing the oil refiner to consider operational changes to boost its stagnant stock.

Elliott is seeking to streamline Phillips 66, most notably with the sale or spinoff of its big midstream business, as The Wall Street Journal previously reported. The Houston-based company's midstream business makes money transporting energy, and is usually more immune to commodity-price fluctuations than the refining or production sides of the oil business.

--

Frontera Energy Venture Told Guyana License Has Terminated

Frontera Energy and partner CGX Energy vowed to defend their remaining interests in Guyana after the government said their exploration license had terminated.

The companies in a joint statement said they remained firmly of the view that their interests in the Corentyne block remains in place and in good standing and that a petroleum agreement hasn't been terminated. Their joint venture is assessing all legal options available to assert its rights and will respond to the government, they said.

--

Perenfra Sees Opportunity in U.S. Water-Infrastructure Needs

Infrastructure developer and operator Perenfra aims to raise $125 million for an investment fund to back new water mains and treatment facilities in a bid to capitalize on rising demand for water infrastructure across the U.S.-an often overlooked sector that gained more attention with the recent wildfires in and around Los Angeles.

The company is raising its first commingled investment vehicle, Perennial Infrastructure Fund I, to back water-supply and wastewater projects and has obtained commitments so far from strategic investors and family offices. A unit within the company, PIF Equity Partners, is managing the capital pool and has backed three such projects, including one in Conroe, Texas, and another in Houston's Harris County, according to Perenfra.

--

Thames Water Utilities Finance Gets Bid Proposals for Equity Raise

Thames Water Utilities Finance received bid proposals from various undisclosed parties as the company raises capital as part of a wider rescue plan.

The subsidiary of debt-laden British water supplier said Tuesday that it will now conduct a detailed assessment of each bid.

--

ArcelorMittal Considers Moving Support Activities to India to Cut Costs

ArcelorMittal said it is looking at the possibility of moving some business-support activities to India from Europe to cut costs in the face of a challenging backdrop for the European steel industry.

The Luxembourg-based steelmaker said Tuesday that it discussed the proposal at a meeting with its European works council, a body representing employees, as part of its efforts to address major issues that the company said threaten the future of steelmaking on the continent.

--

Aluminum Tariffs Could Raise Soda Prices, Coke CEO Says

Aluminum tariffs could boost the price of President Trump's favorite drink.

Coca-Cola imports aluminum from Canada for its U.S. soda cans, Chief Executive James Quincey said. Trump, a fan of Diet Coke, on Monday announced a 25% tariff on steel and aluminum.

--

European Commission Chief Vows Response to Trump's Steel Tariffs

The head of the European Commission said U.S. President Trump's decision to slap tariffs on European Union exports of steel and aluminum would result in countermeasures.

Trump said on Monday he would impose 25% tariffs on foreign metals imported to the U.S.

--

Coca-Cola's 4Q Profit, Revenue Rise on Higher Prices, Sales

Coca-Cola posted better-than-expected revenue and profit in the fourth quarter, boosted by higher prices and sales.

The beverage giant on Tuesday reported a profit of $2.20 billion, or 51 cents a share, compared with $1.97 billion, or 46 cents a share, in last year's quarter.

Adjusted per-share earnings were 55 cents, beating the 52 cents that analysts polled by FactSet forecast.

MARKET TALKS:

Europe's Gas Price Could Surge if U.S. Expands Sanctions on Russian LNG — Market Talk

1555 GMT - European natural-gas prices could surge above 70 euros a megawatt hour if the U.S. further extends sanctions on Russian liquefied natural-gas plants, according to analysts at Rabobank. LNG imports accounted for 40% of Europe's supply mix so far this year, with at least 16% of it coming from Russia. "Tighter sanctions on Russian gas/LNG account for the biggest risk premium for European markets," the analysts say. "The promise of higher U.S. LNG deliveries will not change this outlook as these volumes can only change balances after 2026/2027." On the other hand, a peace deal between Russia and Ukraine could enable the restart of some pipeline flows, with an estimated 15-20 billion cubic meters a year flowing to European markets, Rabobank says. (giulia.petroni@wsj.com)

--

Europe Might Face Increased Competition for U.S. LNG — Market Talk

1515 GMT - Europe might have to pay higher prices for U.S. liquefied natural gas as a result of increased competition due to trade tariffs, according to Commerzbank Research. "Less LNG could be available to the EU in the future if many countries commit to purchasing U.S. LNG in order to avoid the threat of tariffs," commodity analyst Carsten Fritsch says. "Last week, the Japanese Prime Minister promised that his country would buy more LNG from the U.S. in order to reduce the trade surplus." Meanwhile, U.S. gas supply is tightening, with inventories currently 4% below the five-year average. Still, European natural-gas prices are now high enough to attract LNG deliveries from regions typically serving Asia, boosting supplies to the continent. The benchmark Dutch TTF contract trades at 58 euros a megawatt hour, the highest in two years. (giulia.petroni@wsj.com)

--

Base Metal Prices Fall; Aluminum Premium Set to Rise in U.S. on Tariffs — Market Talk

1443 GMT - Base metal prices fall, with LME three-month copper down 1.3% at $9,332.50 a metric ton and LME three-month aluminum down 0.9% at $2,636 a ton. President Trump's latest 25% tariffs on all aluminum imports, effective March 12, is expected to bolster the U.S. Midwest price premium for the metal, Citi analysts say in a note. The market is currently underpricing such a measure, Citi says. No exemptions have been made for any countries or products, though Trump mentioned he is considering an exemption for Australia. Assuming no exemptions are made, the U.S. premium over LME prices is likely to rise to just under 40 cents a pound, Citi says. This will increase all-in aluminum costs for U.S. industries like automotive, construction and packaging, and will disrupt the global aluminum supply chain, Citi adds. (joseph.hoppe@wsj.com)

--

Ford Could Face Layoffs If Inflation Reduction Act is Repealed — Market Talk

1110 ET - Ford could face layoffs if Trump gets rid of certain legislation that Biden passed to support electric vehicle production. CEO Jim Farley said he is concerned about Trump repealing parts of the Inflation Reduction Act, which incentivized various green-energy efforts including electric vehicle production. Ford has already sunk capital into initiatives that would benefit from the IRA, and expects it would have to cut jobs at plants across the country if large parts of the IRA is repealed. Farley said he is visiting D.C. on Wednesday for the second time in three weeks to try to highlight how much policy uncertainty is weighing on the auto industry. (katherine.hamilton@wsj.com)

--

Live Cattle Tumbles to Lowest in a Month — Market Talk 1103 ET - The most-active live cattle contract on the CME is down 1.3% to $1.955 a pound, the lowest cattle has traded since January 8. The contract is off roughly 6% since a record high of $2.07 a pound in late January. The cattle market needed a breather from its run-up spanning back to last September, says AgResource in a note. "The market needed a correction," the firm says. Slaughter data is painting a mixed picture for cattle futures, where slaughters are down but average cattle weights are higher. Lean hogs are up 0.7%. (kirk.maltais@wsj.com)

--

U.S. Natural Gas Futures Extend Gains on Lasting Cold — Market Talk

0946 ET - Forecasts for cold weather over the next 10 days, including a winter storm into the Midwest and Northeast, are giving natural gas futures an additional lift. "Possible well freeze-offs in the Appalachian northeast are keeping the bullish trend alive," BOK Financial's Dennis Kissler says. "Much colder temperatures this winter versus a year ago and rising LNG demand is making a statement." Kissler also notes European gas prices at 2-year highs given faster-than-expected depletion of storage. The Nymex front month is up 2.9% at $3.543/mmBtu. (anthony.harrup@wsj.com)

--

Escalation After Metal Tariffs Expected, Says ING — Market Talk

0932 ET - President Trump's reintroduced Section 232 steel and aluminum tariffs, which cover all "melted and poured" imports of those metals from anywhere in the world, are expected to be met with retaliation from major metal producers like the EU, says ING Economics in a note. "Retaliation is on, and it's going to get nasty," says the firm, adding that when Trump issued metal tariffs during his first term, it didn't help stop the trend of dropping steel and aluminum production within U.S. borders. Primary aluminum, in particular, has been decimated in the U.S. over the past two decades, with now only four smelters left producing roughly 680,000 metric tons of aluminum last year. By comparison, China produced 43 million tons, says ING, citing data from Harbor Intelligence. (kirk.maltais@wsj.com)

--

Oil Futures Extend Gains to Third Session — Market Talk

0916 ET - Crude futures are rising for a third consecutive session, supported by reports of lower Russian production and tensions between Israel and Hamas over their cease-fire agreement. The implications of trade tariffs remain an issue with the U.S. imposing 25% duties on all steel and aluminum imports. "The focus on reduced production rates in Russia, and a more optimistic tone in U.S. and other developed market indices helped crude break the downtrend," Pepperstone's Chris Weston says in a note. A mix of short covering and organic buying suggests crude had reached a near-term low, he adds. Benchmarks WTI rises 1.4% to $73.34 a barrel and Brent is up 1.5% at $77.01 a barrel. (anthony.harrup@wsj.com)

--

Gold Futures Steady After Fresh Record on U.S. Tariff Fears — Market Talk

1126 GMT - Gold futures are broadly flat after setting a record earlier in the session. Futures are down 0.1% at $2,932.30 a troy ounce, having risen as high as $2,968.50 in Asian overnight trading. Gold's fresh high reflects fears over the damage from U.S. tariffs on trade--and threats of retaliation--combined with rising concerns of inflation and persistent geopolitical uncertainty, ActivTrades' Ricardo Evangelista says in a note. A global trade war could cause widespread economic damage, boosting bullion's safe-haven appeal, Evangelista writes. At the same time, U.S. protectionism is set to raise imported goods prices, driving up inflation and further enhancing gold's appeal as a hedge against monetary devaluation, Evangelista says. Given this backdrop and with several unresolved epicenters of geopolitical instability, gold's outlook remains bullish with further price gains possible, he adds. (joseph.hoppe@wsj.com)

--

BP Seeks to Boost Investor Confidence — Market Talk

1048 GMT - BP recognizes that it has work to do to improve investor confidence, Quilter Cheviot's Maurizio Carulli writes. The company is reviewing its capital expenditure and share buyback policy. The British oil and gas company's poor share price performance in 2024 has dragged on shareholder confidence, the analyst adds. As returns come into focus, BP's guidance for divestments worth $3 billion in 2025 can be viewed as a positive, he adds. Shares trade up 0.2% to 466 pence. (adam.whittaker@wsj.com)

--

Trade Turmoil Could Lead OPEC+ to Extend Output Cuts Again — Market Talk

1035 GMT - U.S. President Trump's trade turmoil could push OPEC and its allies to extend existing production cuts once again, according to Morgan Stanley. Tariffs and counter tariffs have the potential to hit oil-intensive sectors of the economy the hardest, hurting global growth and demand for crude. "Adding supply into a period of rising trade tensions is not a compelling prospect, and we suspect that OPEC+ will avoid this," analysts at the U.S. bank say. MS says lower OPEC+ output would lead to a balanced market in the second quarter, despite modest inventory builds in the coming months. The bank trimmed its first-quarter forecasts for Brent crude to $75 a barrel from $77.5 a barrel previously. The international oil benchmark is seen at $75 a barrel in the second quarter and at $72.5 a barrel in the second half of the year. (giulia.petroni@wsj.com)

--

Europe's Gas Edges Lower After Monday's Rally — Market Talk

0956 GMT - European natural-gas prices edge lower in early trade following the previous session's rally. The benchmark Dutch TTF contract is down 1.2% to 57.32 euros a megawatt hour after breaking above 58 euros, the highest level in two years. Colder temperatures and low wind speeds have boosted gas demand in recent weeks, contributing to a sharp decline in inventories. "EU gas inventory utilization is currently at 48.5%, and we might drop as low as low-30s by the end of the winter," analysts at DNB Markets say. Prices are also driven by a slowdown in global LNG supply growth over the past three months, according to the analysts. However, as gas prices rise, some emerging markets in Asia are experiencing lower demand, leaving more LNG available for Europe. (giulia.petroni@wsj.com)

--

BP's Quarterly Profit Hits Four-Year Low — Market Talk

0937 GMT - BP's quarterly profit fell to a four-year low as seasonal weakness, refining margins and maintenance worked dragged on its results, Derren Nathan, head of equity research at Hargreaves Lansdown, writes. Much of this was well trailed in BP's performance update so investors shouldn't be too surprised, he adds. As the British energy giant updates on its strategy later this month, activist investor Elliott Investment Management will be examining the returns profile on BP's assets, he adds. BP's shares trade up 0.3% at 46.64 pounds and are up nearly 20% over the year to date. (adam.whittaker@wsj.com)

--

Base Metal Prices Slip; Tariffs to Affect Only U.S. Prices, Goldman Sachs Says — Market Talk

0932 GMT - Base metal prices fall, with LME three-month copper down 0.9% at $9,367 a metric ton and LME three-month aluminum down 0.4% at $2,649.50 a ton. Metal prices slip after gaining in Monday's session, with copper and aluminum both up on-week. President Trump proposed over the weekend to raise U.S. aluminum import tariffs to 25% from 10% and remove all exemptions, Goldman Sachs analysts say in a note. Assuming no exemptions, aluminum and steel tariffs will largely be passed through to U.S. prices only, Goldman writes. Goldman expects the U.S. Midwest aluminum premium to more than double to 50 cents a pound. Separately, markets are pricing in over a 90% probability of a 10% copper import duty by March, though Goldman Sachs retains a baseline estimate of a 70% chance of a 10% tariff by the end of 2025. (joseph.hoppe@wsj.com)

--

Gold Futures Rise to Near Record High as Tariff Threats Spook Markets — Market Talk

0918 GMT - Gold futures rise after setting a fresh record earlier in the session. Futures are up 0.1% at $2,937.10 a troy ounce, having risen as high as $2,069 in Asian overnight trading. Gold and the U.S. dollar both extended gains, fuelled by fresh tariff threats from President Trump, Swissquote Bank's Ipek Ozkardeskaya says in a note. Trump said on the weekend that he will implement 25% tariffs on steel and aluminum, driving up safe-haven demand for assets like gold. China, Turkey, India and Eastern European nations among others are continuing to buy gold to build their reserves of assets that don't carry Trump or U.S. risks, Ozkardeskaya says. While the tight trade and geopolitical environment could get tenser and uglier very quickly, gold remains the ultimate Trump hedge, and makes $3,000 an ounce easily achievable, she adds. (joseph.hoppe@wsj.com)

--

Oil Extends Gains Despite U.S. Tariff Concerns — Market Talk

0908 GMT - Oil prices extend gains from the previous trading session despite fears that President Trump's trade tariffs might hurt global growth. Brent crude and WTI are both up 1% to $76.67 and $73.07 a barrel, respectively, boosted by signs of tighter supplies and rising geopolitical tensions. According to a Bloomberg report, Russian oil production slipped further below the country's OPEC+ quota in January, easing concerns over an oversupplied market even if the Kremlin still has to make up for past overproduction. Meanwhile, Russia and Ukraine continue to exchange attacks targeting energy infrastructure. Traders now await Fed Chair Jerome Powell's testimony before Congress for cues on future rate policy, as higher rates could slow oil-demand growth. (giulia.petroni@wsj.com)

--

Iron Ore Gains; China Demand Likely to Improve — Market Talk 0255 GMT - Iron ore gains in Asian trading. The steelmaking ingredient may find some support thanks to strong near-term demand and supply dynamics, Nanhua Futures analysts say in commentary. Demand is likely to improve as Chinese steel factories resume production after the Lunar New Year holiday, they add. Investors will closely watch end-user demand for steel while digesting Trump's 25% tariffs on aluminum and steel imports into the U.S. The most-traded iron-ore contract on the Dalian Commodity Exchange is up 0.9% at CNY819.0/ton. (tracy.qu@wsj.com)

Write to Barcelona Editors at barcelonaeditors@dowjones.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250211007445:0/)
