---
title: "PSEG Increases 2025 Common Stock Dividend"
date: "2025-02-11 22:45:00"
summary: "(14:45 GMT) *PSEG Increases 2025 Common Stock Dividend &gt;PEG(14:45 GMT) Press Release: PSEG Increases 2025 Common Stock DividendPSEG Increases 2025 Common Stock DividendPR NewswireNEWARK, N.J., Feb. 11, 2025Indicative Annual Dividend Rate Increases by 5% to $2.52 Per SharePSEG's 118(th) Year of Paying a Common Dividend to ShareholdersNEWARK, N.J., Feb. 11,..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

**(14:45 GMT)** \*PSEG Increases 2025 Common Stock Dividend >PEG  
**(14:45 GMT)** Press Release: PSEG Increases 2025 Common Stock Dividend

PSEG Increases 2025 Common Stock Dividend

PR Newswire

NEWARK, N.J., Feb. 11, 2025

Indicative Annual Dividend Rate Increases by 5% to $2.52 Per Share

PSEG's 118(th) Year of Paying a Common Dividend to Shareholders

NEWARK, N.J., Feb. 11, 2025 /PRNewswire/ — The Board of Directors of Public Service Enterprise Group today declared a $0.63 per share quarterly common stock dividend for the first quarter of 2025, payable on or before March 31, 2025, to shareholders of record on March 10, 2025. This action represents an increase of $0.03 per share in the company's quarterly common stock dividend, bringing the 2025 indicative annual rate to $2.52 per share.

"The 5% increase in the 2025 indicative annual dividend rate represents our 14(th) consecutive annual increase, successfully extending PSEG's track record of delivering consistent and sustainable growth in the common dividend," said Ralph LaRossa, chair, president and chief executive officer of PSEG. "Our long history of providing dividend income for 118 years is supported by our solid financial position, strong business mix and predictable growth."

All future decisions regarding dividends on the common stock are subject to approval by the Board of Directors.

About PSEG

Public Service Enterprise Group (PSEG) is a predominantly regulated infrastructure company operating New Jersey's largest transmission and distribution utility, serving approximately 2.4 million electric and 1.9 million natural gas customers. PSEG also owns an independent fleet of 3,750 MW of carbon-free, baseload nuclear power generating units in New Jersey and Pennsylvania. Guided by its Powering Progress vision, PSEG aims to power a future where people use less energy, and it's cleaner, safer and delivered more reliably than ever. PSEG is a member of the S&P 500 Index and has been named to the Dow Jones Sustainability North America Index for 17 consecutive years. PSEG's businesses include Public Service Electric and Gas Co. (PSE&G), PSEG Power and PSEG Long Island (https://corporate.pseg.com).

Forward-Looking Statements

The statements contained in this press release that are not purely historical are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, which could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated. Such statements are based on management's beliefs as well as assumptions made by and information currently available to management. Factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated in any forward-looking statements made by us herein are discussed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K and subsequent reports on Form 10-Q and Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), and available on our website: https://investor.pseg.com. All of the forward-looking statements made in this press release are qualified by these cautionary statements and we cannot assure you that the results or developments anticipated by management will be realized or even if realized, will have the expected consequences to, or effects on, us or our business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements in making any investment decision. Forward-looking statements made in this press release apply only as of the date hereof. While we may elect to update forward-looking statements from time to time, we specifically disclaim any obligation to do so, even in light of new information or future events, unless otherwise required by applicable securities laws.

From time to time, PSEG and PSE&G release important information via postings on their corporate Investor Relations website at https://investor.pseg.com. Investors and other interested parties are encouraged to visit the Investor Relations website to review new postings. You can sign up for automatic email alerts regarding new postings at the bottom of the webpage at https://investor.pseg.com or by navigating to the Email Alerts webpage here.

```
   
CONTACTS:   
Investor Relations                Media Relations   
PSEG-IR-GeneralInquiry@pseg.com   Marijke Shugrue   
                                  862-465-1445   
                                  Marijke.Shugrue@pseg.com   
 
```

View original content to download multimedia:https://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/pseg-increases-2025-common-stock-dividend-302373621.html

SOURCE Public Service Enterprise Group

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250211006440:0/)
