---
title: "Global Equities Roundup: Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-12 21:35:00"
summary: "The latest Market Talks covering Equities. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.0835 ET - Gold futures slide ahead of crucial U.S. economic data, though they remain close to record highs. Futures are down 1.2% at $2,898.90 a troy ounce, having reached a record of $2,968.50 a troy..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The latest Market Talks covering Equities. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.

0835 ET - Gold futures slide ahead of crucial U.S. economic data, though they remain close to record highs. Futures are down 1.2% at $2,898.90 a troy ounce, having reached a record of $2,968.50 a troy ounce in the prior session. Gold's decline reflects Federal Reserve comments that the U.S. economy is robust and indicating no urgency to implement interest rate cuts, says SHR Capital's Salem Alremeithi. Higher rates typically damp investor enthusiasm for non-interest bearing bullion. That said, the Fed is ready to adjust rates should inflation fall or employment conditions worsen. Market focus is now on the Consumer Price Index report due today and Thursday's Producer Price Index data, he says. If inflation figures exceed expectations, it could exert further downward pressure on gold. Gold preciously found support from increased safe-haven demand, particularly after President Trump's aggressive tariff announcements, Alremeithi adds. (joseph.hoppe@wsj.com)

0827 ET - Fast-food players have reported uneven domestic sales in 4Q, but international growth has stood out so far, including for McDonald's and Yum Brands. Burger King owner Restaurant Brands International reports a 4Q 4.7% same-stores sales increase for its brands internationally, beating analysts' expectations. Restaurant Brands also shows more U.S. strength than rivals, with a 1.5% same-store sales increase in its domestic Burger King restaurants. Restaurant Brands 4Q EPS and sales top Wall Street expectations. Shares up 4% premarket. (heather.haddon@wsj.com; @heatherhaddon)

0813 ET - Vertiv slumps despite a strong 4Q report as investors punish management's conservative approach to guidance. The maker of cooling and power equipment for data centers maintained guidance it provided in November for adjusted earnings of $3.50 to $3.60 a share in 2025, and raised its sales outlook by $75 million at the midpoint to a range of about $9.1 billion to $9.3 billion. Investors seem to have wanted more. Shares are down 7% at $114.14 premarket. Management tends to be conservative with initial outlooks, JPMorgan analyst Stephen Tusa said in a research note on Tuesday, adding that he expected the company to reaffirm its initial outlook. (dean.seal@wsj.com)

0749 ET - Legrand is expected to post higher full-year sales on Thursday, according to a company-compiled consensus estimate. The French electrical and digital building-infrastructure manufacturer is expected to post sales of 8.54 billion euros for 2024, compared to 8.42 billion euros the prior year. Operating profit is forecast at 1.60 million euros, according to consensus estimates provided by Visible Alpha. This would be above 2023's 1.59 billion euros. Shares trade 0.1% higher at 98.02 euros. (nina.kienle@wsj.com)

0734 ET - Prudential PLC's 49% stake in an Indian asset management JV, which it is considering listing, could be worth around $5 billion, or a quarter of the London-listed insurer's total market capitalization, Bank of America says in a research note. "This is clearly only a high-level indication of value and any listing process could incur costs and lead to a discount (or premium) vs closest peers, but we think value discovery will be positive for Prudential," analysts write. They think that several investors aren't aware of the value of this business, which it holds jointly with ICICI Bank. The group also intends to return part of the proceeds to shareholders, which would be significantly accretive to its EPS and provide technical support for the stock. Prudential's London shares jump 7% to 732 pence, their highest level since July. (elena.vardon@wsj.com)

0727 ET - Burger King continues to roll out its sales growth plan, Reclaim the Flame, as it looks to refresh the brand and its restaurants. The program was begun by parent company Restaurant Brands International to improve the guest experience and bring more diners to the Burger King brand, in collaboration with franchisees. The company says it has completed its investments for "high-quality remodels and relocations, restaurant technology, kitchen equipment, and building enhancements," called the Royal Reset in 4Q, and it has it has currently funded $133 million of the $550 million planned for it. (adriano.marchese@wsj.com)

0722 ET - ABN Amro will engage in M&A if it fits in its strategic profile, CEO Robert Swaak said in a call with reporters after the Dutch bank reported fourth-quarter results. ABN Amro bought German private bank Hauck Aufhauser Lampe last year to bolster its wealth-management operations. "What that acquisition showed is that... if potential M&A fits our strategic profile and if it's financially accretive, we would certainly have considerations to do M&A," he said. The deal is expected to close in the second quarter. The bank's targets to increase its fees by 3% to 5% each year are organic and don't depend on M&A. "If there's opportunities that fit the criteria that we've set for ourselves, then we will do the required analysis to come up with decisions," Swaak added. (elena.vardon@wsj.com)

0707 ET - After a bruising 2024, CVS shares continue to rebound after the healthcare giant's 4Q results top Wall Street expectations. The company reports revenue up 4% at $97.7 billion, beating analyst targets. The top line was boosted by growth in CVS's healthcare benefits and pharmacy segments, offset slightly by a decline in its health service segment. Quarterly adjusted earnings of $1.19 a share cleared analyst forecasts for 91 cents a share. The company's earnings guidance for 2025 is in line with current estimates. Shares rise 9% to $59.71 premarket. (dean.seal@wsj.com)

0703 ET - Heineken's performance in 2024 surprised across all figures, with organic sales growth well ahead of market consensus, Bank of America Global Research's Andrea Pistacchi and Bastien Agaud say. The Dutch brewer provided reassuring guidance for 2025, with organic EBIT growth in the range between 4% and 8% against a market consensus of 5.8%, and EPS growth broadly in line with EBIT. The results, along with a share buyback, are positive news after a number of disappointing results, the analysts add. The company's valuation stands close to a 15-year low, which is unjustified given anticipated growth over the short and longer-term. "We expect the stock to rerate in the next 12 months, as investors regain confidence, with more consistent delivery," BofA's analysts say. Shares are up nearly 13% at 76.56 euros. (michael.susin@wsj.com)

0648 ET - Siemens Energy's first-quarter results were boosted by strong contract liabilities, Citi analysts write in a research note. The German energy company booked pretax free cash flow of 1.53 billion euros for the 3 months ended Dec. 31, compared with a loss of 283 million euros a year prior. Customer advances and prepayments drove a mammoth 2.1 billion euros worth of cash inflows during the quarter, the analysts write. Investors will want to understand what drove the strong contract liabilities print, and the implications it has on future demand, they add. Shares trade up 1.05% to 57.90 euros. (adam.whittaker@wsj.com)

0643 ET - The dollar could fall slightly further if U.S. inflation data at 1330 GMT are lower than expected, ING's Chris Turner says in a note. Annual benchmark revisions to inflation increase the risk that the January print is 0.2% on-month versus the 0.3% expected, he says. This could give the Federal Reserve slightly more confidence in the disinflation process and prompt markets to price in more interest rate cuts for 2025, he says. Given some sense of financial market stability as U.S. interest rate volatility falls, the DXY dollar index could fall to 107.300 from 107.883 currently. However, any announcement of new tariffs from President Trump would "easily blow any ideas of a dollar correction out of the water." (renae.dyer@wsj.com)

0630 ET - Ahold Delhaize's performance in the U.S. was soft, UBS analysts say in a note to clients. The Dutch retailer reported sales in the U.S. of 13.87 billion euros for the fourth quarter of 2024, broadly in line with expectations. However, underlying operating profit stood at 584 million euros, below consensus estimates of 602 million euros and UBS's forecast of 607 million euros. U.S. margins were lower at 4.2%, below consensus at 4.3%. The U.S. margin result, as well as the company's 2025 guidance, will likely weigh on the shares, UBS says. Shares are down 5.2% at 33.81 euros. (andrea.figueras@wsj.com)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250212007976:0/)
