---
title: "'The Mother Next Door' Review: Sinister Symptoms"
date: "2025-02-10 02:40:00"
summary: "By Naomi Schaefer Riley\"We were having Easter dinner,\" Faith Preston tells the writer Andrea Dunlop. Faith's little cousin Alyssa \"was walking around to the tables where everybody was eating and she just wanted food.\" Something had to be done. \"So I just finally picked her up in my lap and..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Naomi Schaefer Riley

"We were having Easter dinner," Faith Preston tells the writer Andrea Dunlop. Faith's little cousin Alyssa "was walking around to the tables where everybody was eating and she just wanted food." Something had to be done. "So I just finally picked her up in my lap and started feeding her because it was obvious to me that she was starving." We meet Ms. Preston in "The Mother Next Door," Ms. Dunlop's reported group portrait of what is called "Munchausen by proxy" — a disorder that reveals itself when a parent intentionally creates in a child a condition that requires drastic medical attention or makes a false claim that such a condition exists.

As Ms. Dunlop makes clear, many people around Alyssa suspected that her mother was not feeding her enough. Other mothers in the neighborhood saw Alyssa attempting to sneak food only to have her mother smack it out of her hand. Alyssa was constantly in and out of the hospital. Her mother would go to doctor after doctor claiming that her child was not eating. The doctors put in a G-tube to feed her. Alyssa's mother was reported to child protective services multiple times, but in each case the investigator couldn't determine whether the allegations were true.

And little wonder. It is very difficult, Ms. Dunlop notes, to prove that a parent has Munchausen-by-proxy syndrome. But she argues that parental medical abuse — wherein a parent or caretaker "fabricates, exaggerates, or induces illness in their child" — is more prevalent than we realize. In "The Mother Next Door," Ms. Dunlop gives the harrowing details of three such cases from a single county in Texas, referring to many other cases along the way and showing the complex — and sometimes contradictory — social dynamics at work.

In addition to Alyssa's mother, Ms. Dunlop's portraiture includes a mother who fabricates her own cancer diagnosis and then creates what looks like the symptoms of cystic fibrosis in her daughter. Another mother succeeds in getting doctors to place a shunt in her son's skull to deal with the seizures she claimed he was having. Each case was scrutinized by Ms. Dunlop's co-author, Mike Weber, a crimes-against-children investigator who, we are told, has spent years combing through medical records to uncover medical child abuse.

Ms. Dunlop emphasizes that "factitious disorders" of this sort are characterized by deliberate deception; they are not "cases of someone who is simply anxious or even having outright delusions about illnesses." The women who perpetrate medical child abuse — and it's almost always women, because they are the ones who deal with children's doctors — are engaged in some form of attention-seeking. Social media have probably made the problem worse. Many such mothers crave the "support" of friends or family or an entire community. One mother bilked her neighbors out of hundreds of thousands of dollars to support her "treatment" and that of her daughter.

Such mothers often engage in serial doctor-shopping — sometimes out of state so that records are less likely to cross. Young children are the most frequent victims. Because parents are the ones reporting symptoms to doctors — and because young children can't articulate their experience with precision, let alone contradict their parents — doctors must rely on adults to tell them what is going on with a child at home.

Of course, there are cases of a parent pushing for unnecessary medical attention simply because she is overanxious or ill-informed. But certain patterns raise suspicions of medical abuse, for doctors or other observers, and lead to reports to the authorities: e.g., the way the number of ailments keeps growing or the details of a child's illness — the story line a parent presents — keeps changing; or the way a child's symptoms seem to disappear when a nonparent (at school, in a relative's home) is the caregiver for a while.

Ms. Dunlop acknowledges that there are larger forces that are making it harder for cases of medical child abuse to be uncovered. She notes, for instance, that "as the response to Covid became increasingly and hotly politicized," it "sowed distrust" toward the medical community, so that doctors who might express doubt about a parent's claims are more likely to be seen as "arrogant" and "controlling."

The recent case of Maya Kowalski — the subject of a Netflix documentary called "Take Care of Maya" — has made the public even more sympathetic to this view. Doctors reported Maya's parents for abuse because her parents took her out of the country for chronic pain treatment that involved high doses of ketamine, an anesthetic with hallucinogenic effects. After Maya was removed from her parents' custody, her mother died by suicide and her father successfully sued the hospital that reported the family to child protective services. When it comes to Maya's case, Ms. Dunlop is not convinced that the reporting doctors were wrong, noting, for instance, that one treatment Maya received (illegal in the U.S.) involved putting her into a coma for five days.

Ms. Dunlop, who describes herself as a liberal, says that she confronts a "growing pushback on not only the existence of medical child abuse, but the existence of any child abuse." The idea that we are needlessly reporting parents and removing children from their homes seems to have bipartisan appeal. There are those on the right, Ms. Dunlop says, "who believe it's not the government's place to intervene in parenting in any way." On the "far left" are those who see "all interventions by law enforcement as tainted by a deeply corrupt system." In Texas and elsewhere, such attitudes have resulted in strange alliances between Black Lives Matter supporters and home-schooling advocates.

We are understandably reluctant to doubt the integrity of otherwise sympathetic figures in positions of authority: teachers, priests and, yes, mothers. But, as Ms. Dunlop rightly notes: "Being a mother changes you forever, but it doesn't make you a saint. . . . Mothers are just people, and they're capable of the full spectrum of human behavior — including heinous, evil acts."

* Ms. Riley is a senior fellow at the American Enterprise Institute.

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250209000395:0/)
