---
title: "Amazon Opens First Asia-Pacific Hub in Singapore for Cloud Unit"
date: "2025-02-12 11:00:00"
summary: "By Kimberley KaoAmazon.com's cloud unit has opened its first Asia-Pacific headquarters in Singapore, marking 15 years in the city-state as it seeks to deepen collaborations with regional customers and partners.Amazon Web Services, the U.S. tech giant's cloud-computing arm on Wednesday said the office will act as a strategic hub for..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Kimberley Kao

Amazon.com's cloud unit has opened its first Asia-Pacific headquarters in Singapore, marking 15 years in the city-state as it seeks to deepen collaborations with regional customers and partners.

Amazon Web Services, the U.S. tech giant's cloud-computing arm on Wednesday said the office will act as a strategic hub for digital developments across Singapore and the region, it said.

AWS said its new office can accommodate up to 3,000 employees from more than 100 local and regional teams.

An AWS Asia-Pacific Innovation Hub focused on AI and cloud development, which would be the first of its kind in the region, is slated to open in the Singapore office by the third quarter, it said.

AWS, which provides computing, storage and other services from its data centers around the world, has been accelerating cloud-infrastructure spending globally.

Last year, AWS said it had earmarked $9 billion in investments through 2028 to expand its cloud services and infrastructure in Singapore. That is on top of about $8.5 billion the Seattle-based company has spent in recent years on cloud infrastructure in the city-state.

Amazon said it is continuing to expand its local workforce in Singapore, with more than 100 job openings in its cloud business and corporate functions.

Amazon has more than 2,500 employees in Singapore across its cloud, corporate, retail, technology, and operations functions.

Write to Kimberley Kao at kimberley.kao@wsj.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250211013498:0/)
