---
title: "Tesla Stock Falls. Musk OpenAI Bid Is a Problem for Investors. — Barrons.com"
date: "2025-02-11 18:36:00"
summary: "Al RootTesla stock was down in premarket trading Tuesday after falling for a fourth consecutive day on Monday.It's been a tough stretch for Tesla stock, which lost more than 10% during its losing streak. Investors appear to be staring to fret about the dreaded D word again with CEO Elon..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Al Root

Tesla stock was down in premarket trading Tuesday after falling for a fourth consecutive day on Monday.

It's been a tough stretch for Tesla stock, which lost more than 10% during its losing streak. Investors appear to be staring to fret about the dreaded D word again with CEO Elon Musk. D if for distraction.

Tesla stock was down 0.4% in premarket trading at $349.30 while S&P 500 and Dow Jones Industrial Average future were falling 0.3% and 0.2% respectively.

Musk is always doing a lot. He runs Tesla, SpaceX, xAI, and other firms. He also has a position in President Donald Trump's administration running the newly formed Department of Government Effiency, or DOGE.

Investors didn't seem to mind any of that. Between the Nov. 5 election and the Jan. 20 inauguration, Tesla stock added 70%.

More recently, distraction concern crept in as Musk's DOGE became more active. Then on Monday, The Wall Street Journal reported that Musk was part of an unsolicited $97 billion bid for ChatGPT creator OpenAI.

OpenAI CEO Sam Altman tweeted "no thank you" on Wednesday to which Musk responded "Swindler."

Musk has never liked how OpenAI is attempting to morph from a nonprofit into a for-profit entity.

Attempting to take over another company could send Tesla investors back to April 14, 2022 when Musk tweeted "I made an offer," referencing his bid for then-Twitter. Tesla stock closed at $340.79 on April 13, the day before the bid was disclosed.

He closed the deal on Oct. 28 with Tesla stock trading at about $229, down about 33% from pre-bid levels.

Fears that Musk wasn't focused on Tesla helped drive shares lower, but it might not be as bad as people remember. The Nasdaq Composite lost roughly 17% over the same span. Tesla stock typically moves up or down to a greater extent than an index. A drop like that for the Nasdaq could easily produce a 25% to 35% decline in Tesla stock — all else being equal.

Maybe the market was responsible for most of the losses in Tesla stock. Investors living through the Twitter purchase probably don't see it that way.

Where Musk's OpenAI bid goes is anyone's guess. Tesla investors should brace for more stock volatility. They are used to that.

Coming into Tuesday trading, Tesla stock was down 13.2% so far this and down about 18% since the presidential inauguration. Still, shares were up about 86% over the past 12 months.

Write to Al Root at allen.root@dowjones.com

This content was created by Barron's, which is operated by Dow Jones & Co. Barron's is published independently from Dow Jones Newswires and The Wall Street Journal.

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250211002171:0/)
