---
title: "News Highlights: Top Financial Services News of the Day - Tuesday at 7 AM ET"
date: "2025-02-11 20:15:00"
summary: "The Magnificent 7 Are So Last Year. Cash Cows Are the New Kings.A new twist on value has investors waking up to the beauty of companies returning gobs of cash to shareholders.Accounting Firms Hire Growth Leaders as Dealmaking Shakes Up IndustryMore accounting firms are adding chief growth officers to their..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

**The Magnificent 7 Are So Last Year. Cash Cows Are the New Kings.**

A new twist on value has investors waking up to the beauty of companies returning gobs of cash to shareholders.

**Accounting Firms Hire Growth Leaders as Dealmaking Shakes Up Industry**

More accounting firms are adding chief growth officers to their ranks as small and midsize players aim to stay competitive amid fast-paced expansion and dealmaking in the traditionally staid industry.

**UniCredit Guides For Flat Profit This Year With Higher Returns**

The Italian bank said it expected net profit to be broadly in line with 2024's result and promised increased shareholder returns despite an expected dip in revenue as lower interest rates eat into its top line.

**Trump Curbs Enforcement of Antibribery Law**

The president has signed an executive order that says the use of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act has hurt American competitiveness.

**TD Bank to Sell Investment in Charles Schwab**

Toronto-Dominion Bank will exit its investment in Charles Schwab, the Canadian bank's first big move under new CEO Raymond Chun to shore up its business following a costly money-laundering scandal.

**American Express Stock Slips as CFO Says Wall Street Is Too Upbeat**

The company's chief financial officer said growth in the first quarter would be slower than the fourth.

**Man Behind Fake SEC Bitcoin ETF Post Pleads Guilty**

Eric Council Jr., a 25-year-old from Alabama, was arrested in October for his role in the hack of the SEC's X account.

**Wells Fargo Recruits $1.6 Billion Advisor Team From UBS**

The team includes several advisors with decades of experience in the industry.

**Mediobanca Lifts Shareholder Return Target**

The upgrade comes after Mediobanca CEO Alberto Nagel highlighted faster growth at the bank and as the country's banking sector is in the midst of an M&A spree.

**Financial Services Roundup: Market Talk**

Find insight on BPER Banca's takeover offer, Maybank and more in the latest Market Talks covering financial services.

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250211003992:0-news-highlights-top-financial-services-news-of-the-day-tuesday-at-7-am-et/)
