---
title: "Japan and Australia Seek Relief From Steel, Aluminum Tariffs — WSJ"
date: "2025-02-13 01:54:00"
summary: "By Bob TitaJapan and Australia want the U.S. to exempt them from tariffs on imported steel and aluminum that President Trump plans to reinstate next month on allied countries.Trump said this week he will no longer allow exceptions to his 2018 tariffs on steel and aluminum, which the Biden administration..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Bob Tita

Japan and Australia want the U.S. to exempt them from tariffs on imported steel and aluminum that President Trump plans to reinstate next month on allied countries.

Trump said this week he will no longer allow exceptions to his 2018 tariffs on steel and aluminum, which the Biden administration had kept in place. Trump and former President Biden granted exemptions or duty free-import quotas for several major U.S. trading partners, including Canada, Mexico, South Korea, Brazil and the European Union.

Trump exempted Australia from the duties in 2018 and Biden in 2022 allowed up to 1.25 million metric tons of steel annually from Japan into the U.S. without the 25% tariff. Starting March 12, the countries with exemptions or quotas will be subject to 25% tariffs on steel and aluminum.

Yoji Muto, Japan's minister of economy, trade and industry, told reporters this week that Japan was seeking an exemption from the tariffs. Australia's Prime Minister Anthony Albanese said he requested an exemption during a phone call this week with Trump.

Japan is one of the world's largest producers of steel and Australia is a major aluminum supplier. U.S. industry supporters of the tariffs have said the exemptions allow countries still subject to the duties to circumvent them by shipping metal duty free to the U.S. through exempted countries.

For more on the tariffs, watch here:

This item is part of a Wall Street Journal live coverage event. The full stream can be found by searching P/WSJL (WSJ Live Coverage).

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250212011043:0/)
