---
title: "Wood Group Shares Hit All-Time Low After Review Indicates Prior-Year Account Adjustments"
date: "2025-02-14 16:46:00"
summary: "By Ian WalkerJohn Wood Group shares hit a record low after the company said it was reviewing how much it would need to adjust prior-year earnings related to issues at its projects business, and saying it had a weaker-than-expected fourth quarter.The FTSE 250-listed energy-services company also said Friday that it..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Ian Walker

John Wood Group shares hit a record low after the company said it was reviewing how much it would need to adjust prior-year earnings related to issues at its projects business, and saying it had a weaker-than-expected fourth quarter.

The FTSE 250-listed energy-services company also said Friday that it was in talks with lenders over financing options as most of its debt facilities are due to end in October.

Shares were down 16.15 pence, or 25%, at 49.20 pence in early morning European trading having fallen to a low of 43.55 pence earlier in the session. They are currently down 26% over the year to date and 68% lower over the past 12 months.

The company said that the review into the business by Deloitte is continuing and that it doesn't expect any material impact from this on the group's cash position, or ability to generate cash in the future.

However, it said that based on preliminary findings the company is evaluating potential adjustments to the accounts of previous years related to its projects business unit and the impact on adjusted Ebitda for fiscal 2023 and earlier years.

It is also taking steps to strengthen the group's financial culture, governance and controls in light of identified weaknesses and failures.

The company hired Deloitte in November to conduct a review into the business after it exited some large scale work, and booked a big impairment on the projects business unit at its half-year earnings last August.

Wood Group said Friday that as part of its continued transformation the board has derisked the business away from lump sum turnkey projects which has reduced revenue and left legacy claims liabilities to address.

The company said it is on track for annualized savings of $60 million this year, having launched the program last March. It added that the program has been extended with a further $85 million of annualized savings targeted from next year onwards, of which $60 million are expected to benefit this year.

The company said it expects to report adjusted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization for the year ended Dec. 31 of between $450 million and $460 million and adjusted EBIT of $205 million to $215 million.

The board has taken actions to mitigate the weaker-than-expected fourth quarter, including cancelling executive and employee bonuses and managing working capital at year end, it said.

Due to these actions, the board expects double-digit adjusted Ebitda and adjusted EBIT growth for the year ahead, but negative free cash flow of $150 million to $200 million.

It added that the actions taken this year will result in positive cash flow next year and further growth in adjusted Ebitda and adjusted EBIT.

Write to Ian Walker at ian.walker@wsj.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250214003896:0/)
