---
title: "Taylor Morrison Reports Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2024 Results"
date: "2025-02-12 19:15:00"
summary: "(11:15 GMT) *Taylor Morrison Home 4Q EPS $2.30 &gt;TMHC(11:15 GMT) *Taylor Morrison Home 4Q Rev $2.36B &gt;TMHC(11:15 GMT) *Taylor Morrison Home 4Q Adj EPS $2.64 &gt;TMHC(11:15 GMT) *Taylor Morrison Home 4Q Net $242.5M &gt;TMHC(11:15 GMT) Press Release: Taylor Morrison Reports Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2024 ResultsTaylor Morrison Reports Fourth..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

**(11:15 GMT)** \*Taylor Morrison Home 4Q EPS $2.30 >TMHC  
**(11:15 GMT)** \*Taylor Morrison Home 4Q Rev $2.36B >TMHC  
**(11:15 GMT)** \*Taylor Morrison Home 4Q Adj EPS $2.64 >TMHC  
**(11:15 GMT)** \*Taylor Morrison Home 4Q Net $242.5M >TMHC  
**(11:15 GMT)** Press Release: Taylor Morrison Reports Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2024 Results

Taylor Morrison Reports Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2024 Results

PR Newswire

SCOTTSDALE, Ariz., Feb. 12, 2025

SCOTTSDALE, Ariz., Feb. 12, 2025 /PRNewswire/ — Taylor Morrison Home Corporation , a leading national land developer and homebuilder, announced results for the fourth quarter and full year ended December 31, 2024. Reported fourth quarter net income was $242 million, or $2.30 per diluted share, while adjusted net income was $278 million, or $2.64 per diluted share. For the full year 2024, reported net income was $883 million, or $8.27 per diluted share, while adjusted net income was $931 million, or $8.72 per diluted share.

Fourth quarter 2024 highlights:

* Net sales orders increased 11% year over year to 2,621
* Monthly absorption pace of 2.6, up from 2.4 a year ago
* Ending outlets of 339, up 4% from a year ago
* Home closings revenue of $2.2 billion, up 12% year over year
* 3,571 closings, up 12% year over year, at an average price of $608,000
* Home closings gross margin of 24.8% and adjusted home closings gross margin of 24.9%
* 86,153 homebuilding lots owned and controlled
* 57% controlled off balance sheet, up from 53% a year ago

Full year 2024 highlights:

* Home closings revenue of $7.8 billion, up 8% year over year   
   -- 12,896 home closings, up 12% year over year, at an average price   
   of $601,000
* Home closings gross margin of 24.4% and adjusted home closings gross margin of 24.5%
* Total homebuilding land spend of $2.4 billion, of which 43% was development related
* Repurchased 5.6 million common shares for $348 million
* Homebuilding debt-to-capitalization of 24.9% on a gross basis and 20.0% net of unrestricted cash
* Total liquidity of $1.4 billion

"I am proud to share the strong results of our fourth quarter, which I believe once again distinguished our team's execution and the merits of our diversified consumer and geographic strategy. With strong closings growth, higher margins and cost discipline, we produced a nearly-30% year-over-year increase in our adjusted earnings per diluted share and a 14% year-over-year increase in our book value per share to $56," said Sheryl Palmer, Taylor Morrison CEO and Chairman.

Palmer continued, "This quarter's results capped off another milestone year for our organization, in which we met or exceeded each of the long-term goals we laid out in early 2024. This included 12% closings growth, which was well ahead of the 4% increase contemplated in our initial guidance heading into the year and our 10% average growth target. Along with this stronger volume, our adjusted gross margin of 24.5% was up 50 basis points year over year and more than 100 basis points better than our initial expectation. Our annualized sales pace of 3.0 for the year also met our targeted range despite the challenging environment. Combined with nearly $350 million in share repurchases, our return on equity improved to approximately 16%. We are committed to strategies that support sustainable mid-to-high teen returns on equity going forward, from our increasingly asset-lighter balance sheet and land investments to our substantial share repurchase activity and operational efficiencies."

"By meeting the needs of well-qualified homebuyers with appropriate product offerings in prime community locations, we continue to benefit from healthy demand and pricing resiliency across our portfolio. While 2025 promises to bring new challenges and it is early in the year, we are confident that our long-standing emphasis on capital-efficient growth will yield another year of strong performance. At this time, we are forecasting growth in our total deliveries to between 13,500 to 14,000 homes at a home closings gross margin in the range of 23% to 24%, assuming current market conditions," said Palmer.

Fourth Quarter Business Highlights (All comparisons are of the current quarter to the prior-year quarter, unless indicated.)

Homebuilding

* Home closings revenue increased 12% to $2.2 billion, driven by a 12% increase in closings to 3,571 homes and less-than-1% increase in average closing price to $608,000.
* Fourth quarter home closings gross margin was 24.8% on a reported basis and 24.9% on an adjusted basis, which was up 70 and 80 basis points, respectively, from the reported gross margin of 24.1% in the year-ago quarter.
* Net sales orders increased 11% to 2,621, driven by an 8% improvement in the monthly absorption pace to 2.6 per community and a 4% increase in ending community count to 339 outlets.
* SG&A as a percentage of home closings revenue decreased 30 basis points to 9.4% from 9.7% a year ago.
* Cancellations equaled 13.1% of gross orders, up from 11.6% a year ago.
* Backlog at quarter end was 4,742 homes with a sales value of $3.2 billion. Backlog customer deposits averaged approximately $50,000 per home.

Land Portfolio

* Homebuilding land acquisition and development investment totaled $590 million, up from $537 million a year ago. Development-related investment accounted for 50% of the total versus 42% a year ago.
* Homebuilding lot supply was 86,153 homesites, of which 57% was controlled off balance sheet. This compared to total lots of 72,362 at the end of 2023, of which 53% was controlled.
* Based on trailing twelve-month home closings, total homebuilding lots represented 6.6 years of supply, of which 2.8 years was owned.

Financial Services

* The mortgage capture rate was 89% in the fourth quarter, up from 86% a year ago.
* Borrowers had an average credit score of 752 and average debt-to-income ratio of 39%.

Balance Sheet

* At quarter end, total liquidity was approximately $1.4 billion, including $947 million of total capacity on the Company's revolving credit facility, which was undrawn outside of normal letters of credit.
* The gross homebuilding debt to capital ratio was 24.9%. Including $487 million of unrestricted cash on hand, the net homebuilding debt-to-capital ratio was 20.0%.
* The Company repurchased 1.4 million shares for $90 million, bringing the full-year total to 5.6 million shares for $348 million. At quarter end, the remaining share repurchase authorization was $910 million.

Business Outlook

First Quarter 2025

* Home closings are expected to be approximately 2,900
* Average closing price is expected to be between $590,000 to $600,000
* Home closings gross margin is expected to be in the high-23% range
* Ending active community count is expected to be between 340 to 345
* Effective tax rate is expected to be approximately 24%
* Diluted share count is expected to be approximately 104 million

Full Year 2025

* Home closings are expected to be between 13,500 to 14,000
* Average closing price is expected to be between $590,000 to $600,000
* Home closings gross margin is expected to be between 23% to 24%
* Ending active community count is expected to be at least 355
* SG&A as a percentage of home closings revenue is expected to be in the mid-9% range
* Effective tax rate is expected to be between 24.5% to 25%
* Diluted share count is expected to be approximately 102 million
* Homebuilding land acquisition and development investment is expected to be around $2.6 billion
* Share repurchases are expected to be in the range of $300 million to $350 million

Quarterly Financial Comparison

```
   
                                                                   Q4 2024   
                                                                    vs. Q4   
(Dollars in thousands)         Q4 2024              Q4 2023          2023   
                         -------------------  -------------------  --------   
Total Revenue             $        2,356,489   $        2,019,865    16.7 %   
Home Closings Revenue     $        2,169,703   $        1,937,632    12.0 %   
Home Closings Gross   
 Margin                  $           537,700  $           466,980    15.1 %   
                                                                     70 bps   
                                      24.8 %               24.1 %  increase   
Adjusted Home Closings   
 Gross Margin            $           540,411  $           466,980    15.7 %   
                                                                     80 bps   
                                      24.9 %               24.1 %  increase   
SG&A                     $           204,258  $           188,212     8.5 %   
% of Home Closings                                                   30 bps   
 Revenue                               9.4 %                9.7 %  decrease   
 
```

Annual Financial Comparison

```
   
                                                                   2024 vs.   
(Dollars in thousands)          2024                 2023            2023   
                         -------------------  -------------------  --------   
Total Revenue             $        8,168,136   $        7,417,831    10.1 %   
Home Closings Revenue     $        7,755,219   $        7,158,857     8.3 %   
Home Closings Gross   
 Margin                   $        1,891,476   $        1,707,456    10.8 %   
                                                                   50 bps   
                                      24.4 %               23.9 %  increase   
Adjusted Home Closings   
 Gross Margin             $        1,896,512   $        1,719,247    10.3 %   
                                                                   50 bps   
                                      24.5 %               24.0 %  increase   
SG&A                     $           770,498  $           698,707    10.3 %   
% of Home Closings                                                 10 bps   
 Revenue                               9.9 %                9.8 %  increase   
 
```

Earnings Conference Call Webcast

A public webcast to discuss the Company's earnings will be held later today at 8:30 a.m. ET. To receive a unique passcode and dial-in information, please register here. The webcast will be recorded and available for replay on Taylor Morrison's website at www.taylormorrison.com on the Investor Relations portion of the site under the News & Events tab.

Upcoming Investor Day

As previously announced, Taylor Morrison will host its first-ever Investor Day on Thursday, March 6, 2025, in Sarasota, Florida. The event will feature presentations by Taylor Morrison's executive leadership team on the Company's long-term strategic vision and guest speaker Ali Wolf, Chief Economist at Zonda, on the state of the housing market. In-person attendees will also have the opportunity to join a tour of Taylor Morrison communities and experience its award-winning Esplanade resort lifestyle offerings.

A live webcast of the presentations and question-and-answer sessions will be available on the Investor Relations page of Taylor Morrison's website at www.taylormorrison.com. Presentations are expected to begin at 12 p.m. ET and conclude at 3:30 p.m. ET. The webcast replay and presentation materials will be available on the Investor Relations webpage within 24 hours of the event.

In-person attendance is available for institutional investors and analysts only and requires advanced registration. Those interested in attending the event in-person are asked to register here.

About Taylor Morrison

Headquartered in Scottsdale, Arizona, Taylor Morrison is one of the nation's leading homebuilders and developers. We serve a wide array of consumers from coast to coast, including first-time, move-up, luxury and resort lifestyle homebuyers and renters under our family of brands--including Taylor Morrison, Esplanade and Yardly. From 2016 to 2025, Taylor Morrison has been recognized as America's Most Trusted(R) Builder by Lifestory Research. Our long-standing commitment to sustainable operations is highlighted in our annual Sustainability and Belonging Report.

For more information about Taylor Morrison, please visit www.taylormorrison.com.

Forward-Looking Statements

This earnings summary includes "forward-looking statements." These statements are subject to a number of risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause our actual results, performance, prospects or opportunities, as well as those of the markets we serve or intend to serve, to differ materially from those expressed in, or implied by, these statements. You can identify these statements by the fact that they do not relate to matters of a strictly factual or historical nature and generally discuss or relate to forecasts, estimates or other expectations regarding future events. Generally, the words ""anticipate, " "estimate," "expect," "project," "intend," "plan," "believe," "may," "will," "can," "could," "might," "should" and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements, including statements related to expected financial, operating and performance results, planned transactions, planned objectives of management, future developments or conditions in the industries in which we participate and other trends, developments and uncertainties that may affect our business in the future.

Such risks, uncertainties and other factors include, among other things: inflation or deflation; changes in general and local economic conditions; slowdowns or severe downturns in the housing market; homebuyers' ability to obtain suitable financing; increases in interest rates, taxes or government fees; shortages in, disruptions of and cost of labor; higher cancellation rates of existing agreements of sale; competition in our industry; any increase in unemployment or underemployment; the seasonality of our business; the physical impacts of climate change and the increased focus by third-parties on sustainability issues; our ability to obtain additional performance, payment and completion surety bonds and letters of credit; significant home warranty and construction defect claims; our reliance on subcontractors; failure to manage land acquisitions, inventory and development and construction processes; failure to develop and maintain relationships with suitable land banks; availability of land and lots at competitive prices; decreases in the market value of our land inventory; new or changing government regulations and legal challenges; our compliance with environmental laws and regulations regarding climate change; our ability to sell mortgages we originate and claims on loans sold to third parties; governmental regulation applicable to our financial services and title services business; the loss of any of our important commercial lender relationships; our ability to use deferred tax assets; raw materials and building supply shortages and price fluctuations, including as a result of tariffs; our concentration of significant operations in certain geographic areas; risks associated with our unconsolidated joint venture arrangements; information technology failures and data security breaches; costs to engage in and the success of future growth or expansion of our operations or acquisitions or disposals of businesses; costs associated with our defined benefit and defined contribution pension schemes; damages associated with any major health and safety incident; our ownership, leasing or occupation of land and the use of hazardous materials; existing or future litigation, arbitration or other claims; negative publicity or poor relations with the residents of our communities; failure to recruit, retain and develop highly skilled, competent people; utility and resource shortages or rate fluctuations; constriction of the capital markets; risks related to instability in the banking system; risks associated with civil unrest, acts of terrorism, threats to national security, the conflicts in Eastern Europe and the Middle East and other geopolitical events; the scale and scope of current and future public health events, including pandemics and epidemics; any failure of lawmakers to agree on a budget or appropriation legislation to fund the federal government's operations (also known as a government shutdown), and financial markets' and businesses' reactions to any such failure; risks related to our substantial debt and the agreements governing such debt, including restrictive covenants contained in such agreements; our ability to access the capital markets; the risks associated with maintaining effective internal controls over financial reporting; provisions in our charter and bylaws that may delay or prevent an acquisition by a third party; and our ability to effectively manage our expanded operations.

In addition, other such risks and uncertainties may be found in our most recent annual report on Form 10-K and our subsequent quarterly reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) as such factors may be updated from time to time in our periodic filings with the SEC. We undertake no duty to update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or changes in our expectations, except as required by applicable law.

```
   
                                   Taylor Morrison Home Corporation   
                            Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations   
                          (In thousands, except per share amounts, unaudited)   
                               Three Months Ended                       Twelve Months Ended   
                                  December 31,                              December 31,   
                    ----------------------------------------  ----------------------------------------   
                           2024                 2023                 2024                 2023   
                    -------------------  -------------------  -------------------  -------------------   
Home closings   
 revenue, net          $      2,169,703     $      1,937,632     $      7,755,219     $      7,158,857   
Land closings   
 revenue                         33,138               29,532               81,417               60,971   
Financial services   
 revenue                         53,930               43,204              199,459              160,312   
Amenity and other   
 revenue                         99,718                9,497              132,041               37,691   
                    -------------------  -------------------  -------------------  -------------------   
     Total revenue            2,356,489            2,019,865            8,168,136            7,417,831   
Cost of home   
 closings                     1,632,003            1,470,652            5,863,743            5,451,401   
Cost of land   
 closings                        22,694               24,598               73,609               55,218   
Financial services   
 expenses                        28,039               23,372              108,592               93,990   
Amenity and other   
 expenses                       109,743                9,139              137,980               34,149   
                    -------------------  -------------------  -------------------  -------------------   
     Total cost of   
      revenue                 1,792,479            1,527,761            6,183,924            5,634,758   
Gross margin                    564,010              492,104            1,984,212            1,783,073   
Sales, commissions   
 and other   
 marketing costs                121,822              113,543              456,092              418,134   
General and   
 administrative   
 expenses                        82,436               74,669              314,406              280,573   
Net income from   
 unconsolidated   
 entities                         (261)              (1,708)              (6,347)              (8,757)   
Interest   
 expense/(income),   
 net                              5,893                (564)               13,316             (12,577)   
Other expense, net               46,790               80,884               50,627               87,567   
Loss on   
 extinguishment of   
 debt, net                           --                   26                   --                  295   
                    -------------------  -------------------  -------------------  -------------------   
Income before   
 income taxes                   307,330              225,254            1,156,118            1,017,838   
Income tax   
 provision                       63,307               52,092              269,548              248,097   
                    -------------------  -------------------  -------------------  -------------------   
Net income before   
 allocation to   
 non-controlling   
 interests                      244,023              173,162              886,570              769,741   
Net income   
 attributable to   
 non-controlling   
 interests                      (1,570)                (577)              (3,261)                (812)   
                    -------------------  -------------------  -------------------  -------------------   
Net income            $         242,453    $         172,585    $         883,309    $         768,929   
                    ===================  ===================  ===================  ===================   
Earnings per   
common share:   
 Basic              $              2.35  $              1.61  $              8.43  $              7.09   
 Diluted            $              2.30  $              1.58  $              8.27  $              6.98   
Weighted average   
number of shares   
of common stock:   
 Basic                          103,189              107,227              104,813              108,424   
 Diluted                        105,218              108,969              106,846              110,145   
   
   
                      Taylor Morrison Home Corporation   
                    Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets   
                          (In thousands, unaudited)   
                                 December 31,             December 31,   
                                      2024                     2023   
                            -----------------------  -----------------------   
Assets   
Cash and cash equivalents   $               487,151  $               798,568   
Restricted cash                                  15                    8,531   
                            -----------------------  -----------------------   
Total cash                                  487,166                  807,099   
Owned inventory                           6,162,889                5,473,828   
Consolidated real estate   
 not owned                                   71,195                   71,618   
                            -----------------------  -----------------------   
Total real estate   
 inventory                                6,234,084                5,545,446   
Land deposits                               299,668                  203,217   
Mortgage loans held for   
 sale                                       207,936                  193,344   
Lease right of use assets                    68,057                   75,203   
Prepaid expenses and other   
 assets, net                                370,642                  290,925   
Other receivables, net                      217,703                  184,518   
Investments in   
 unconsolidated entities                    439,721                  346,192   
Deferred tax assets, net                     76,248                   67,825   
Property and equipment,   
 net                                        232,709                  295,121   
Goodwill                                    663,197                  663,197   
                            -----------------------  -----------------------   
   Total assets              $            9,297,131   $            8,672,087   
                            =======================  =======================   
Liabilities   
Accounts payable            $               270,266  $               263,481   
Accrued expenses and other   
 liabilities                                632,250                  549,074   
Lease liabilities                            78,998                   84,999   
Income taxes payable                          2,243                       --   
Customer deposits                           239,151                  326,087   
Estimated development   
 liabilities                                  4,365                   27,440   
Senior notes, net                         1,470,454                1,468,695   
Loans payable and other   
 borrowings                                 475,569                  394,943   
Revolving credit facility   
borrowings                                       --                       --   
Mortgage warehouse   
 borrowings                                 174,460                  153,464   
Liabilities attributable   
 to consolidated real   
 estate not owned                            71,195                   71,618   
                            -----------------------  -----------------------   
Total liabilities            $            3,418,951   $            3,339,801   
Stockholders' equity   
Total stockholders' equity                5,878,180                5,332,286   
                            -----------------------  -----------------------   
   Total liabilities and   
    stockholders' equity     $            9,297,131   $            8,672,087   
                            =======================  =======================   
   
   
Homes Closed and Home Closings Revenue, Net:   
                                                       Three Months Ended December 31,   
                         --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------   
                              Homes Closed             Home Closings Revenue, Net           Average Selling Price   
(Dollars in thousands)    2024    2023   Change       2024            2023       Change    2024      2023     Change   
                         ------  ------  ------  --------------  --------------  ------  --------  --------  --------   
East                      1,432   1,252  14.4 %  $      835,590  $      712,461  17.3 %  $    584  $    569     2.6 %   
Central                     924     767  20.5 %         501,184         436,080  14.9 %       542  $    569   (4.7) %   
West                      1,215   1,171   3.8 %         832,929         789,091   5.6 %       686  $    674     1.8 %   
                         ------  ------          --------------  --------------   
Total                     3,571   3,190  11.9 %   $   2,169,703   $   1,937,632  12.0 %  $    608  $    607     0.2 %   
                         ======  ======          ==============  ==============   
   
                                                       Twelve Months Ended December 31,   
                         --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------   
                              Homes Closed             Home Closings Revenue, Net           Average Selling Price   
                         ----------------------  --------------------------------------  ----------------------------   
(Dollars in thousands)    2024    2023   Change       2024            2023       Change    2024      2023     Change   
                         ------  ------  ------  --------------  --------------  ------  --------  --------  --------   
East                      4,922   4,480   9.9 %   $   2,826,628   $   2,619,322   7.9 %  $    574  $    585   (1.9 %)   
Central                   3,552   3,143  13.0 %       1,969,381       1,935,500   1.8 %       554       616  (10.1 %)   
West                      4,422   3,872  14.2 %       2,959,210       2,604,035  13.6 %       669       673   (0.6) %   
                         ------  ------          --------------  --------------   
Total                    12,896  11,495  12.2 %   $   7,755,219   $   7,158,857   8.3 %  $    601  $    623   (3.5) %   
                         ======  ======          ==============  ==============   
   
   
Net Sales Orders:   
                                                        Three Months Ended December 31,   
                         ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------   
                            Net Sales Orders                    Sales Value                   Average Selling Price   
                         -----------------------  ---------------------------------------  ----------------------------   
(Dollars in thousands)    2024    2023   Change        2024            2023       Change     2024      2023     Change   
                         ------  ------  -------  --------------  --------------  -------  --------  --------  --------   
East                        993     902   10.1 %  $      532,647  $      579,540  (8.1 %)  $    536  $    643  (16.6 %)   
Central                     784     602   30.2 %         411,750         339,973   21.1 %       525       565   (7.1) %   
West                        844     857  (1.5 %)         587,451         565,747    3.8 %       696       660     5.5 %   
                         ------  ------           --------------  --------------   
Total                     2,621   2,361   11.0 %   $   1,531,848   $   1,485,260    3.1 %  $    584  $    629   (7.2 %)   
                         ======  ======           ==============  ==============   
   
                                                        Twelve Months Ended December 31,   
                         ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------   
                            Net Sales Orders                    Sales Value                   Average Selling Price   
                         -----------------------  ---------------------------------------  ----------------------------   
(Dollars in thousands)    2024    2023   Change        2024            2023       Change     2024      2023     Change   
                         ------  ------  -------  --------------  --------------  -------  --------  --------  --------   
East                      4,588   3,968   15.6 %   $   2,537,245   $   2,366,528    7.2 %  $    553  $    596   (7.2) %   
Central                   3,250   2,725   19.3 %       1,773,792       1,588,169   11.7 %       546       583   (6.3) %   
West                      4,410   4,137    6.6 %       2,991,700       2,784,803    7.4 %       678       673     0.7 %   
                         ------  ------           --------------  --------------   
Total                    12,248  10,830   13.1 %   $   7,302,737   $   6,739,500    8.4 %  $    596  $    622   (4.2) %   
                         ======  ======           ==============  ==============   
   
   
Sales Order Backlog:   
                                                             As of December 31,   
                         -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------   
                         Sold Homes in Backlog                Sales Value                   Average Selling Price   
                         ----------------------  --------------------------------------  ---------------------------   
(Dollars in thousands)   2024   2023    Change       2024           2023        Change     2024      2023    Change   
                         -----  -----  --------  -------------  -------------  --------  --------  --------  -------   
East                     1,737  2,071  (16.1) %  $   1,190,884  $   1,480,268  (19.5) %  $    686  $    715  (4.1 %)   
Central                  1,098  1,299  (15.5) %        668,574        864,162  (22.6) %       609       665  (8.4) %   
West                     1,907  1,919   (0.6 %)      1,332,690      1,300,200     2.5 %       699       678    3.1 %   
                         -----  -----            -------------  -------------   
Total                    4,742  5,289  (10.3) %  $   3,192,148  $   3,644,630  (12.4) %  $    673  $    689  (2.3 %)   
                         =====  =====            =============  =============   
   
   
Ending Active Selling Communities:   
                    As of             Change   
          --------------------------  -------   
          December 31,  December 31,   
              2024          2023   
          ------------  ------------   
East               124           108   14.8 %   
Central             99            93    6.5 %   
West               116           126  (7.9 %)   
          ------------  ------------   
Total              339           327    3.7 %   
          ============  ============   
 
```

Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures

In addition to the results reported in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States ("GAAP"), we provide our investors with supplemental information relating to: (i) adjusted net income and adjusted earnings per common share, (ii) adjusted income before income taxes and related margin, (iii) adjusted home closings gross margin, (iv) EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA and (v) net homebuilding debt to capitalization ratio.

Adjusted net income, adjusted earnings per common share and adjusted income before income taxes and related margin are non-GAAP financial measures that reflect the net income/(loss) available to the Company excluding, to the extent applicable in a given period, the impact of inventory and real estate impairment charges, impairment of investment in unconsolidated entities, pre-acquisition abandonment charges, gains/losses on land transfers to joint ventures, extinguishment of debt, net, and legal reserves or settlements that the Company deems not to be in the ordinary course of business and in the case of adjusted net income and adjusted earnings per common share, the tax impact due to such items. Adjusted home closings gross margin is a non-GAAP financial measure calculated as GAAP home closings gross margin (which is inclusive of capitalized interest), excluding inventory impairment charges. EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA are non-GAAP financial measures that measure performance by adjusting net income before allocation to non-controlling interests to exclude, as applicable, interest expense/(income), net, amortization of capitalized interest, income taxes, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA), non-cash compensation expense, if any, inventory and real estate impairment charges, impairment of investment in unconsolidated entities, pre-acquisition abandonment charges, gains/losses on land transfers to joint ventures, extinguishment of debt, net and legal reserves or settlements that the Company deems not to be in the ordinary course of business, in each case, as applicable in a given period. Net homebuilding debt to capitalization ratio is a non-GAAP financial measure we calculate by dividing (i) total debt, plus unamortized debt issuance cost/(premium), net, and less mortgage warehouse borrowings, net of unrestricted cash and cash equivalents ("net homebuilding debt"), by (ii) total capitalization (the sum of net homebuilding debt and total stockholders' equity).

Management uses these non-GAAP financial measures to evaluate our performance on a consolidated basis, as well as the performance of our segments, and to set targets for performance-based compensation. We also use the ratio of net homebuilding debt to total capitalization as an indicator of overall financial leverage and to evaluate our performance against other companies in the homebuilding industry. In the future, we may include additional adjustments in the above-described non-GAAP financial measures to the extent we deem them appropriate and useful to management and investors.

We believe that adjusted net income, adjusted earnings per common share, adjusted income before income taxes and related margin, as well as EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA, are useful for investors in order to allow them to evaluate our operations without the effects of various items we do not believe are characteristic of our ongoing operations or performance and also because such metrics assist both investors and management in analyzing and benchmarking the performance and value of our business. Adjusted EBITDA also provides an indicator of general economic performance that is not affected by fluctuations in interest rates or effective tax rates, levels of depreciation or amortization, or unusual items. Because we use the ratio of net homebuilding debt to total capitalization to evaluate our performance against other companies in the homebuilding industry, we believe this measure is also relevant and useful to investors for that reason. We believe that adjusted home closings gross margin is useful to investors because it allows investors to evaluate the performance of our homebuilding operations without the varying effects of items or transactions we do not believe are characteristic of our ongoing operations or performance.

These non-GAAP financial measures should be considered in addition to, rather than as a substitute for, the comparable U.S. GAAP financial measures of our operating performance or liquidity. Although other companies in the homebuilding industry may report similar information, their definitions may differ. We urge investors to understand the methods used by other companies to calculate similarly-titled non-GAAP financial measures before comparing their measures to ours.

A reconciliation of (i) adjusted net income and adjusted earnings per common share, (ii) adjusted income before income taxes and related margin, (iii) adjusted home closings gross margin, (iv) EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA and (v) net homebuilding debt to capitalization ratio to the comparable GAAP measures is presented below.

```
   
                      Adjusted Net Income and Adjusted Earnings Per Common Share   
   
                                 Three Months Ended                     Twelve Months Ended   
                                    December 31,                            December 31,   
                         ----------------------------------  -----------------------------------------   
(Dollars in thousands,   
except per share data)         2024              2023              2024                 2023   
                         ----------------  ----------------  ----------------  -----------------------   
Net income                  $     242,453     $     172,585     $     883,309    $             768,929   
Legal reserves or   
 settlements                       17,392            64,665            23,682                   64,665   
Real estate impairment   
 charges                           20,530                --            29,637                   11,791   
Pre-acquisition   
 abandonment charges                6,545             1,176             9,453                    4,235   
Loss on extinguishment   
 of debt, net                          --                26                --                      295   
Tax impact due to above   
 non-GAAP reconciling   
 items                            (9,160)          (15,216)          (14,638)                 (19,737)   
                         ----------------  ----------------  ----------------  -----------------------   
Adjusted net income         $     277,760     $     223,236     $     931,443    $             830,178   
Basic weighted average   
 number of shares                 103,189           107,227           104,813                  108,424   
Adjusted earnings per   
 common share - Basic    $           2.69  $           2.08  $           8.89  $                  7.66   
Diluted weighted   
 average number of   
 shares                           105,218           108,969           106,846                  110,145   
Adjusted earnings per   
 common share -   
 Diluted                 $           2.64  $           2.05  $           8.72  $                  7.54   
   
   
            Adjusted Income Before Income Taxes and Related Margin   
   
                            Three Months Ended         Twelve Months Ended   
                               December 31,                December 31,   
                         ------------------------  ----------------------------   
(Dollars in thousands)      2024         2023          2024           2023   
                         -----------  -----------  ------------  --------------   
Income before income   
 taxes                       307,330      225,254     1,156,118       1,017,838   
Legal reserves or   
 settlements                  17,392       64,665        23,682          64,665   
Real estate impairment   
 charges                      20,530           --        29,637          11,791   
Pre-acquisition   
 abandonment charges           6,545        1,176         9,453           4,235   
Loss on extinguishment   
 of debt, net                     --           26            --             295   
                         -----------  -----------  ------------  --------------   
Adjusted income before   
 income taxes            $   351,797  $   291,121  $  1,218,890  $    1,098,824   
                         -----------  -----------  ------------  --------------   
   Total revenue         $ 2,356,489  $ 2,019,865  $  8,168,136  $    7,417,831   
Income before income   
 taxes margin                 13.0 %       11.2 %        14.2 %          13.7 %   
Adjusted income before   
 income taxes margin          14.9 %       14.4 %        14.9 %          14.8 %   
   
   
                    Adjusted Home Closings Gross Margin   
   
                            Three Months Ended       Twelve Months Ended   
                               December 31,              December 31,   
                         ------------------------  ------------------------   
(Dollars in thousands)      2024         2023         2024         2023   
                         -----------  -----------  -----------  -----------   
Home closings revenue    $ 2,169,703  $ 1,937,632  $ 7,755,219  $ 7,158,857   
Cost of home closings      1,632,003    1,470,652    5,863,743    5,451,401   
                         -----------  -----------  -----------  -----------   
Home closings gross   
 margin                   $  537,700   $  466,980  $ 1,891,476  $ 1,707,456   
Inventory impairment   
 charges                       2,711           --        5,036       11,791   
                         -----------  -----------  -----------  -----------   
Adjusted home closings   
 gross margin             $  540,411   $  466,980  $ 1,896,512  $ 1,719,247   
                         ===========  ===========  ===========  ===========   
Home closings gross   
 margin as a percentage   
 of home closings   
 revenue                      24.8 %       24.1 %       24.4 %       23.9 %   
Adjusted home closings   
 gross margin as a   
 percentage of home   
 closings revenue             24.9 %       24.1 %       24.5 %       24.0 %   
   
   
                         EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA Reconciliation   
                         Three Months Ended December 31,   Twelve Months Ended December 31,   
                         --------------------------------  --------------------------------   
(Dollars in thousands)        2024             2023             2024             2023   
                         ---------------  ---------------  ---------------  ---------------   
Net income before   
 allocation to   
 non-controlling   
 interests               $       244,023  $       173,162  $       886,570  $       769,741   
   Interest   
    expense/(income),   
    net                            5,893            (564)           13,316         (12,577)   
   Amortization of   
    capitalized   
    interest                      32,207           37,491          114,199          134,870   
   Income tax provision           63,307           52,092          269,548          248,097   
   Depreciation and   
    amortization                   2,279            2,918           11,535            8,976   
                         ---------------  ---------------  ---------------  ---------------   
EBITDA                   $       347,709  $       265,099   $    1,295,168   $    1,149,107   
   Legal reserves or   
    settlements                   17,392           64,665           23,682           64,665   
   Non-cash   
    compensation   
    expense                        5,445            7,589           22,461           26,095   
   Real estate   
    impairment charges            20,530               --           29,637           11,791   
   Pre-acquisition   
    abandonment   
    charges                        6,545            1,176            9,453            4,235   
   Loss on   
    extinguishment of   
    debt, net                         --               26               --              295   
                         ---------------  ---------------  ---------------  ---------------   
Adjusted EBITDA          $       397,621  $       338,555   $    1,380,401   $    1,256,188   
                         ===============  ===============  ===============  ===============   
Total revenue             $    2,356,489   $    2,019,865   $    8,168,136   $    7,417,831   
Net income before   
 allocation to   
 non-controlling   
 interests as a   
 percentage of total   
 revenue                          10.4 %            8.6 %           10.9 %           10.4 %   
EBITDA as a percentage   
 of total revenue                 14.8 %           13.1 %           15.9 %           15.5 %   
Adjusted EBITDA as a   
 percentage of total   
 revenue                          16.9 %           16.8 %           16.9 %           16.9 %   
   
   
                             Debt to Capitalization Ratios Reconciliation   
                                                                                  As of December 31,   
(Dollars in thousands)     As of December 31, 2024    As of September 30, 2024           2023   
                         ---------------------------  ------------------------  ----------------------   
Total debt               $                 2,120,483  $              2,143,223  $            2,017,102   
Plus: unamortized debt   
 issuance cost, net                            6,616                     7,056                   8,375   
Less: mortgage   
 warehouse borrowings                      (174,460)                 (233,331)               (153,464)   
                         ---------------------------  ------------------------  ----------------------   
Total homebuilding debt  $                 1,952,639  $              1,916,948  $            1,872,013   
Total equity                               5,878,180                 5,723,462               5,332,286   
                         ---------------------------  ------------------------  ----------------------   
Total capitalization     $                 7,830,819  $              7,640,410  $            7,204,299   
                         ===========================  ========================  ======================   
Total homebuilding debt   
 to capitalization   
 ratio                                        24.9 %                    25.1 %                  26.0 %   
                         ---------------------------  ------------------------  ----------------------   
Total homebuilding debt  $                 1,952,639  $              1,916,948  $            1,872,013   
Less: cash and cash   
 equivalents                               (487,151)                 (256,447)               (798,568)   
                         ---------------------------  ------------------------  ----------------------   
Net homebuilding debt    $                 1,465,488  $              1,660,501  $            1,073,445   
Total equity                               5,878,180                 5,723,462               5,332,286   
                         ---------------------------  ------------------------  ----------------------   
Total capitalization     $                 7,343,668  $              7,383,963  $            6,405,731   
                         ===========================  ========================  ======================   
Net homebuilding debt   
 to capitalization   
 ratio                                        20.0 %                    22.5 %                  16.8 %   
 
```

CONTACT:

Mackenzie Aron, VP Investor Relations

(407) 906-6262

investor@taylormorrison.com

View original content to download multimedia:https://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/taylor-morrison-reports-fourth-quarter-and-full-year-2024-results-302374159.html

SOURCE Taylor Morrison

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250212004816:0/)
