---
title: "News Highlights: Top Global Markets News of the Day - Wednesday at 11 PM ET"
date: "2025-02-13 12:00:00"
summary: "Dow, S&amp;P 500 Fall After Inflation Hits 3%The S&amp;P 500 and Dow industrials fell after CPI rose 3% in January from a year earlier. The Nasdaq Composite edged higher.Trump's tariffs could make international stocks more attractive than U.S. investments. Here's why.U.S. investors are looking abroad in pursuit of higher stock-market..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

**Dow, S&P 500 Fall After Inflation Hits 3%**

The S&P 500 and Dow industrials fell after CPI rose 3% in January from a year earlier. The Nasdaq Composite edged higher.

**Trump's tariffs could make international stocks more attractive than U.S. investments. Here's why.**

U.S. investors are looking abroad in pursuit of higher stock-market returns.

**Inflation Heated Up in January, Freezing the Fed**

Consumer prices rose 3%, extending a recent pattern of increases at the start of the year that likely derails the prospect for Federal Reserve rate cuts anytime soon.

**Hot inflation report, rising Treasury yields warn the market's bull run could be in trouble. Here's how to read it.**

Investors worry the Federal Reserve might have gone too far in cutting interest rates

**'Stagflation-lite?' Economy may face fresh threat of slower growth and rising inflation.**

Trump vows to unleash the U.S. economy, but his agenda is creating lots of uncertainty.

**Trump Reciprocal-Tariff Vow Further Breaks From Global Trading Norms**

The president on Thursday is expected to outline reciprocal tariffs on nations that have imposed levies on U.S. exports, the White House said.

**Canadian Firms Defer Spending as Tariff Threat Looms, Weighing on Broader Economy**

A Bank of Canada survey in December indicated firms like Wellmaster are downgrading their sales outlooks, and scrapping investment and hiring plans amid Trump's policies.

**Bank of Canada Cut Rates to Shield Economy From Possible Trade Fallout, Minutes Say**

A need to fuel faster growth and shield the economy from U.S. trade-policy uncertainty led senior Bank of Canada officials to agree on a quarter-point rate cut last month, according to minutes summarizing central bank deliberations.

**Trump Calls India a Tariff King, a Title Modi Wants to Shed**

With tariffs on imports averaging 14%, India is especially vulnerable to the reciprocal levies Trump says he will impose on some countries.

**U.S. Crude Oil Stockpiles Rise For Third Straight Week**

U.S. crude oil inventories increased for a third consecutive week while gasoline stocks declined for the first time in three months, according to data released by the U.S. Energy Information Administration.

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250212017302:0/)
