---
title: "Auto & Transport Roundup: Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-14 17:20:00"
summary: "The latest Market Talks covering the Auto and Transport sector. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires at 4:20 ET, 12:20 ET and 16:50 ET.0345 GMT - Honda Motor estimates that Trump's 25% tariffs on Canadian and Mexican imports to the U.S., which will likely trigger retaliatory action by the two..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The latest Market Talks covering the Auto and Transport sector. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires at 4:20 ET, 12:20 ET and 16:50 ET.

0345 GMT - Honda Motor estimates that Trump's 25% tariffs on Canadian and Mexican imports to the U.S., which will likely trigger retaliatory action by the two countries, would cost the company about $4.6 billion annually. About one-third of Honda cars sold in the American market are imported from Canada and Mexico, according to Honda's executive vice president Shinji Aoyama. "We are taking short-term measures, such as bringing production in Mexico and Canada to the U.S., as much as possible, by the end of February," Aoyama said at a Thursday news conference. "In the medium term, we are also preparing to consider slightly changing the allocation of models." (megumi.fujikawa@wsj.com)

1823 GMT - Penske Automotive Group turned in a strong 4Q report as same-store sales of new vehicles jumped 7%. Gross profit on those new vehicles increased from the prior quarter, while it decreased for used vehicles. Across the industry, gross profit per vehicle is still normalizing, but the metric has stabilized for Penske thanks to its focus on premium vehicles, Benchmark analyst Michael Albanese says in a research note. The analyst also points out that a 4Q inflection in the earnings for Penske's truck rental segment suggests a potential bottom for that business. Shares rise 8.5%. (dean.seal@wsj.com)

1207 GMT - The NATO alliance must increase defense spending, not only because the U.S. is demanding it, but because "the threat coming from Russia and other adversaries is increasing," NATO's Secretary General Mark Rutte tells reports in Brussels. There is a "clear convergence" emerging among NATO members on the need to end the Ukraine-Russia war as soon as possible, and strengthen Ukraine ahead of potential ceasefire talks, he says. It is crucial that Ukraine is involved in any such talks, Rutte adds. Most European defense stocks are rising in midday trade, after some decreases in the early morning following a call between U.S. President Donald Trump and Russian President Vladimir Putin. BAE Systems' shares advance 2.9%, Rheinmetall shares are up 1.95%, shares in Leonardo rise 1.5% and Hensoldt shares are up 0.8%. (cristina.gallardo@wsj.com)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250214004147:0/)
