---
title: "Energy & Utilities Roundup: Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-13 01:20:00"
summary: "The latest Market Talks covering Energy and Utilities. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires at 4:20 ET, 12:20 ET and 16:50 ET.0855 ET - Oil futures are down after an industry group reports a large build in U.S. crude inventories, while OPEC holds its 2025 oil demand growth estimate at..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The latest Market Talks covering Energy and Utilities. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires at 4:20 ET, 12:20 ET and 16:50 ET.

0855 ET - Oil futures are down after an industry group reports a large build in U.S. crude inventories, while OPEC holds its 2025 oil demand growth estimate at 1.45 million barrels a day. The API said crude stocks increased by 9 million barrels last week, analysts note, which follows an 8.7 million barrel build reported for the previous week by the EIA. The EIA's data for last week are due at 10:30 ET. "Crude stock builds are expected in the U.S., but the recent rate of building is more than expected," TP ICAP's Scott Shelton says in a note. "I think that we may see a slowing in the builds in February for the U.S. as exports will be stronger," he adds. WTI is down 1.2% at $72.43 a barrel, and Brent is off 1% at $76.23. (anthony.harrup@wsj.com)

0250 ET - European utilities are likely to be perceived as meaningful losers from a ceasefire between Ukraine and Russia, especially those in the U.K. and Northern Europe, J.P. Morgan analysts say. Investors could infer that Russia would resume selling pipeline gas to Europe again, putting downward pressure on European gas and power prices, they write in a research note. That situation could offer an entry point for equities such as Engie and RWE, they note. The restoration of pipeline flows from Russia might not be immediate or significant because of a number of infrastructure constraints, legal obstacles and numerous pendingarbitration cases between Gazprom and former European counterparts in gas contracts, the analysts say. Enel and Endesa could outperform in the near future because they sell more power than they produce, the analysts add. (cristina.gallardo@wsj.com)

1521 ET - Crude futures extend their recovery from last week's lows to three sessions as the market navigates different scenarios for the effects of U.S. trade tariffs and geopolitical premium picks up with Israel and Hamas in dispute over their cease-fire and hostage-release agreement. Wednesday's U.S. inventories report could prove bearish with a third straight weekly build in crude-oil stocks expected. Analysts in a Wall Street Journal survey predict a crude-stock increase of 2.4 million barrels, with gasoline inventories up and distillate stocks down. WTI settles up 1.4%, at $73.32 a barrel, and Brent rises 1.5%, to $77.00 a barrel. (anthony.harrup@wsj.com)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250212010763:0/)
