---
title: "Income Investing: Time to Go Long on the Curve — but Not Too Long — Barron's"
date: "2025-02-08 10:30:00"
summary: "By Lawrence C. StraussMany income investors have gravitated to cash these past few years, given the juicy yields at the front end of the yield curve.The yield curve was inverted until recently, and it made sense for investors to park money in shorter-dated products, including money-market funds. That had the..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Lawrence C. Strauss

Many income investors have gravitated to cash these past few years, given the juicy yields at the front end of the yield curve.

The yield curve was inverted until recently, and it made sense for investors to park money in shorter-dated products, including money-market funds. That had the added benefit of minimizing duration risk — a bond price's sensitivity to changes in interest rates.

Now, though, moving further out on the curve appears more favorable for bond investors looking for income. "It makes sense to move out of cash, for sure," says Lawrence Gillum, chief fixed income strategist at LPL Financial. He prefers Treasuries and corporate bonds with maturities of one to five years.

Cash is hardly trash, but it has lost some of its luster as longer-term yields have moved up. The Crane 100 Money Fund Index, which tracks the largest money-market funds, has a 4.19% average seven-day yield — down by nearly a percentage point from 5.13% on July 31 of last year.

The 10-year U.S. Treasury yield, meanwhile, has risen sharply in recent months, even as the Federal Reserve has slashed short-term rates by one percentage point since September. The 10-year note is at around 4.4%, versus 3.75% in late September. The five-year Treasury over that period has climbed to around 4.2%.

While there's a good case for moving out of cash toward the middle of the curve, adding even longer-dated holdings looks like a riskier move.

The Vanguard Long-Term Treasury exchange-traded fund's one-year return is about minus 3%; the ETF has posted negative results in three of the past four calendar years. Rising interest rates were a big headwind.

The 30-year Treasury bond yields around 4.7%, compared with about 4% in mid-September, but "you're not really getting compensated a lot to take on that duration risk," says Gillum. "The curve has steepened, but it's still not steep."

Gene Tannuzzo, global head of fixed income at Columbia Threadneedle Investments, also prefers moving from cash to bonds — in his case Treasuries with maturities of up to seven years.

Among the factors that could hurt longer-term bonds beyond that range, he says, are "concerns about longer-term inflation," growing federal budget deficits, and "the ultimate amount of supply" of Treasuries. All of those factors — and others — could push longer-term yields even higher, pressuring their prices.

Tannuzzo says the five-year Treasury has an attractive yield, at a recent 4.3%. "I can lock in the 4.3% for five years instead of just overnight," he says. "I feel better about that."

People who have immediate cash needs should stay in that part of the market, advises Paul Olmsted, a fixed-income analyst at Morningstar. But "for long-term investors, I would consider moving out [on the curve] for slightly higher yields but also better diversification," he says.

For example, on Dec. 31 the average life of the holdings in the $49 billion JPMorgan Core Bond fund was just over six years, Olmsted says. So even though that fund holds some bonds with maturities further out on the curve, it's effectively a way to play the shorter and middle parts of the curve. Besides Treasuries, the fund's holdings include asset-backed securities and corporate bonds.

As the table above shows, other options include the Baird Aggregate Bond fund, the American Funds Bond Fund of America, and the Vanguard Total Bond Market ETF.

All of these funds, which focus on investment-grade issues such as Treasuries, corporate debt, and securitized holdings, are in Morningstar's core bond category.

Email: editors@barrons.com

To subscribe to Barron's, visit http://www.barrons.com/subscribe

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250207011786:0/)
