---
title: "Robinhood's Big Quarter Was About Crypto, But There's More to The Story — WSJ"
date: "2025-02-14 02:42:00"
summary: "By Telis DemosSince the \"meme\" stock boom, Robinhood Markets has diversified its business away from wild trading, adding fairly sober products like retirement accounts and a credit card.But the return of some animal spirits in trading can still be very good for its business.Robinhood's bumper fourth quarter, reported late Wednesday,..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Telis Demos

Since the "meme" stock boom, Robinhood Markets has diversified its business away from wild trading, adding fairly sober products like retirement accounts and a credit card.

But the return of some animal spirits in trading can still be very good for its business.

Robinhood's bumper fourth quarter, reported late Wednesday, was a crypto story. Customers traded $71 billion worth of notional crypto in the fourth quarter, after trading just $14 billion in the third quarter.

That powered its big quarterly result. Total net revenue jumped from $637 million in the third quarter to $1.014 billion in the fourth quarter. Of that $377 million jump, just shy of $300 million came from the rise in crypto transaction revenue.

Robinhood's stock was up around 11% midday Thursday, and is on track to close at its highest level since a brief peak in August 2021.

But Robinhood is a very different company now. Revenue in the fourth quarter was over $1 billion, nearly triple what they were three years prior. More than 10% of its funded accounts are paying to subscribe to its Gold service, up from about 6% a year prior. It also has a much bigger base of non-transaction net interest revenues, at nearly $300 million in the fourth quarter.

It is also making net profits, not losses. Notably, Robinhood added about $370 million to its $916 million fourth-quarter net income through tax benefits, mostly by releasing deferred tax assets from when it was losing money. This is typically an indicator that a company is expecting further profits.

Investors should be cautious about projecting forward the same pace of crypto trading revenue, given how prone to a boom-and-bust cycle that industry is, and also consider the one-time nature of some of its tax benefits in the quarter.

Yet seeing its stock price back at peak levels shouldn't alone be cause for alarm, given some of the durable revenue drivers that the company has developed. Robinhood has done a lot of growing up since its YOLO days.

This item is part of a Wall Street Journal live coverage event. The full stream can be found by searching P/WSJL (WSJ Live Coverage).

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250213013186:0/)
