---
title: "Why Trump's aluminum tariffs won't 'radically change' Coke's packaging plans"
date: "2025-02-12 00:53:00"
summary: "By Tomi KilgoreQuarterly profit extended its long streak of topping expectations, and as price and mix rose at least 9% for the nearly three yearsShares of Coca-Cola Co. climbed toward the highest levels seen in more than three months in early Tuesday trading, after the beverage giant reported a surprise..."
categories:
  - "MarketWatch"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "MarketWatch"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Tomi Kilgore

Quarterly profit extended its long streak of topping expectations, and as price and mix rose at least 9% for the nearly three years

Shares of Coca-Cola Co. climbed toward the highest levels seen in more than three months in early Tuesday trading, after the beverage giant reported a surprise rise in quarterly revenue, as unit case volume returned to growth and prices continued to rise.

The increase in overall case volume was driven by growth in North America, Asia Pacific and Latin America, as increases in sparkling soft drinks, water, sports, coffee and tea offset declines in juice, value-added dairy and plant-based beverages.

The stock (KO) rose 3.5% to pace the Dow Jones Industrial Average's DJIA premarket gainers, and to put it on track to open at the highest levels seen since Oct. 28.

Net operating revenue for the fourth quarter grew 6.4% from a year ago, to $11.54 billion from $10.85 billion, while the FactSet consensus called for a decline to $10.68 billion. That was the widest margin for a top-line beat since the second quarter of 2021, based on FactSet data.

Unit case volume was up 2%. In the previous quarter, case volume had fallen 1% to snap a six-quarter streak of growth.

Price and mix rose 9% in the latest quarter, to mark the 11th-straight quarter of increases of at least 9%.

In North America, unit case volume rose 1%, amid growth in sparkling flavors, Trademark Coca-Cola, juice, plant-based beverages and value-added dairy.

Price/mix increased 12%, boosted by "pricing actions in the marketplace."

Net income for the quarter to Dec. 31 rose to $2.2 billion, or 51 cents a share, from $1.97 billion, or 46 cents a share, a year ago.

Excluding nonrecurring items, such as asset impairments and tax matters, adjusted earnings per share grew 12% to 55 cents, above the FactSet consensus of 52 cents. That marked the 21st straight quarter of bottom-line beats.

Looking ahead, the company expects full-year 2025 adjusted EPS to increase by 2% to 3% from 2024, while the current FactSet consensus of $2.95 implies 2.4% growth.

Coca-Cola's stock has tacked on 1.9% over the past three months through Monday, while the Consumer Staples Select Sector SPDR ETF XLP has slipped 0.9% and the Dow has edged up 1.1%.

-Tomi Kilgore

This content was created by MarketWatch, which is operated by Dow Jones & Co. MarketWatch is published independently from Dow Jones Newswires and The Wall Street Journal.

[MarketWatch](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_SN20250211003848:0/)
