---
title: "Market Talk Roundup: BP's Profit Misses Expectations; Announces Fundamental Strategy Change"
date: "2025-02-11 19:20:00"
summary: "BP said fourth-quarter net profit fell more than expected and that it would reset its strategy, days after reports that activist hedge fund Elliott Management is pushing for change at the company. Below is a selection of analysts' comments:BP's 2025 Guidance Looks Soft0819 GMT - BP's forward-looking guidance is a..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

BP said fourth-quarter net profit fell more than expected and that it would reset its strategy, days after reports that activist hedge fund Elliott Management is pushing for change at the company. Below is a selection of analysts' comments:

BP's 2025 Guidance Looks Soft

0819 GMT - BP's forward-looking guidance is a little soft compared with market expectations, RBC Capital Markets analysts Biraj Borkhataria and Adnan Dhanani write. The British energy major expects first-quarter hydrocarbon production to fall by around 90,000 oil equivalent barrels a day due to divestments. However, investors had expected a production increase, they write. BP's 2025 corporate cost guidance of around $1 billion is roughly $200 million higher than consensus, they add. Shares trade up 0.4% at 467 pence. (adam.whittaker@wsj.com)

BP's Quarterly Profit Hits Four-Year Low

0937 GMT - BP's quarterly profit fell to a four-year low as seasonal weakness, refining margins and maintenance worked dragged on its results, Derren Nathan, head of equity research at Hargreaves Lansdown, writes. Much of this was well trailed in BP's performance update so investors shouldn't be too surprised, he adds. As the British energy giant updates on its strategy later this month, activist investor Elliott Investment Management will be examining the returns profile on BP's assets, he adds. BP's shares trade up 0.3% at 46.64 pounds and are up nearly 20% over the year to date. (adam.whittaker@wsj.com)

BP's Near-Term Outlook Seen as Lackluster

1005 GMT - BP's outlook for early this year is uninspiring, Interactive Investor's Head of Markets Richard Hunter writes. BP expects to report lower upstream production and volumes in the first quarter of 2025. Meanwhile, investors are confused about BP's strategy and wait to see whether its change in direction will result in reduced investment in renewable energy assets, which have proved to be unprofitable, he adds. Shares trade up 0.3% at 466.50 pence. (adam.whittaker@wsj.com)

BP Seeks to Boost Investor Confidence

1048 GMT - BP recognizes that it has work to do to improve investor confidence, Quilter Cheviot's Maurizio Carulli writes. The company is reviewing its capital expenditure and share buyback policy. The British oil and gas company's poor share price performance in 2024 has dragged on shareholder confidence, the analyst adds. As returns come into focus, BP's guidance for divestments worth $3 billion in 2025 can be viewed as a positive, he adds. Shares trade up 0.2% to 466 pence. (adam.whittaker@wsj.com)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250211003019:0/)
