---
title: "Global Equities Roundup: Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-11 16:34:00"
summary: "The latest Market Talks covering Equities. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.0834 GMT - Mediobanca's strong profit and revenue beats, along with its outlook confirmation and improved 2026 targets, confirm its franchise potential, Citi says in a research note. The market should have a positive reaction to..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The latest Market Talks covering Equities. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.

0834 GMT - Mediobanca's strong profit and revenue beats, along with its outlook confirmation and improved 2026 targets, confirm its franchise potential, Citi says in a research note. The market should have a positive reaction to the Italian bank's results, which has recently rejected a takeover approach from peer Monte dei Paschi, analyst Azzurra Guelfi writes. "We would expect the market to continue to re-rate the stock," she says. The results could also push a higher premium for Monte dei Paschi's current offer, which Citi remains skeptical on, Guelfi notes. Shares open 2.1% higher at 16.90 euros. (elena.vardon@wsj.com)

0826 GMT - BYD's AI-driven smart-driving technology is positive for companies in its supply chain, Citi analysts say in a research note. The analysts see upside of at least 3%-5% to component maker BYD Electronic's auto-business revenue over 2025 and 2026, the analysts say. However, the recent rally for BYD and its related stocks may have already priced in most of the impact, they add. Citi sees Will Semiconductor, Sunny Optical Technology and BYD Electronic as major beneficiaries from the advanced driver assistance system theme, given the big contribution in revenue and profit from the auto business. (tracy.qu@wsj.com)

0825 GMT - Bellway is on track to deliver on full-year guidance at the halfway mark but this robust performance is at odds with its subdued share price performance, RBC Capital Markets analyst Anthony Codling says in a note. The underlying housing market appears to be stronger than what investors think it is, Codling says. Despite a rise in mortgage rates, customer demand and pricing remained firm. The forward order book's value of 1.31 billion pounds is 30% above 2024's levels, and implies a forward order book average sale price that is 9% higher year-on-year, he says. Shares are down 6.3% at 2,402 pence and are down 3.6% in the year to date. (anthony.orunagoriainoff@dowjones.com)

0823 GMT - U.K. housebuilder Bellway appears to be in the early stages of a recovery, Quilter Cheviot analyst Oli Creasey says in a note. Although its house prices rose around 0.5%, this is a little behind some peers including Persimmon which reported 5% growth, Creasey says. Bellway expects operating margins to improve modestly to 11% from 10%. Though positive, it represents the scale of the challenge the company and other housebuilders face, Creasey says. Its operating margin in 2022 was around 18% so there is still a long way to go before it, or the industry, fully recovers, he says. "The mortgage market and wider economic conditions continue to have an impact on customer demand and are likely to be a headwind for Bellway for some time yet," he says. (anthony.orunagoriainoff@dowjones.com)

0821 GMT - Hong Kong's benchmark Hang Seng Index closed 1.1% lower at 21294.86. Chinese equities' strong rally over the past month could be prompting some market participants to lock in some profits now, said IG market strategist Yeap Jun Rong. Adding to that impulse is continued concerns around U.S. tariffs. "Given that U.S. 'reciprocal' tariffs will be expected over the coming days and with trade imbalances highlighted as a key basis for the move, China is clearly in the crosshairs," he wrote in an email. Among decliners, Geely Automobile fell 10%, Xinyi Solar lost 7.2% and Nongfu Spring shed 6.0%. Meanwhile, Sunny Optical Technology rose 3.0% and Zijin Mining Group added 1.5%. (amanda.lee@wsj.com)

0819 GMT - BP's forward-looking guidance is a little soft compared with market expectations, RBC Capital Markets analysts Biraj Borkhataria and Adnan Dhanani write. The British energy major expects first-quarter hydrocarbon production to fall by around 90,000 oil equivalent barrels a day due to divestments. However, investors had expected a production increase, they write. BP's 2025 corporate cost guidance of around $1 billion is roughly $200 million higher than consensus, they add. Shares trade up 0.4% at 467 pence. (adam.whittaker@wsj.com)

0818 GMT - Mediobanca's new targets for 2026 imply earnings per share that are more than 4% higher than current consensus expectations, Jefferies says in a research note after the Italian bank's quarterly results. Revenue is now expected at 4 billion euros, against 3.8 billion euros previously, with over 1.4 billion euros in net profit. The guidance was outlined alongside its results for the fourth quarter of 2024, in which it posted a profit beat thanks to strong fees in its corporate and investment bank and backed its earnings per share growth guidance for 2025. Shares in Mediobanca, which recently rejected a takeover offer from peer Monte dei Paschi, rose 2% at market open. (elena.vardon@wsj.com)

0808 GMT - Dunelm Group reported modest growth in both revenue and pretax profit in the first half, although that was driven by volumes and market-share gains, Barclays analysts Richard Taylor and Sharanya Gajapathy say in a note. While the soft-furnishing retailer's revenue rise was modest, the volume increase and stable prices are positive news and considered sustainable given that the sector is increasing prices to defend profits, they say. Added to that, Dunelm declared a pleasing special dividend of 35 pence, in line with prior year, they say. Despite the company noting a 9 million pounds inflationary headwind, it continued to invest on manufacturing capabilities, they add. (michael.susin@wsj.com)

0808 GMT - DSM-Firmenich will likely communicate on capital returns in advance of further divestment, Jefferies analysts write in a note. The sale of its stake in the Feed Enzymes Alliance to its partner Novonesis brings focus to its balance sheet, the analysts say. "The combination of this divestment and the previously announced Robertet sale represents around 1.8 billion euros of net proceeds from divestment," they add. This suggests that the Dutch nutrition, health and bioscience company could communicate on capital returns even before the finalized remaining Animal Nutrition and Health sale. Shares rise 3.8% to 99.48 euros. (najat.kantouar@wsj.com)

0808 GMT - Ams-Osram's guidance for the first quarter points to a weaker performance, as previously flagged, but it isn't worse than feared, Vontobel's Mark Diethelm says in a research note. The European electronics company expects first-quarter revenue of between 750 million and 850 million euros, with an adjusted Ebitda margin of 14.5% to 17.5%. Ams-Osram will continue to face challenges in the first half of 2025 due to weak demand and continued inventory adjustments, the analyst says. However, it said it expects a meaningfully stronger second half of the year. "Overall, the message is consistent and we do not expect material consensus estimate adjustments," the analyst says. Shares jump 14%. (adria.calatayud@wsj.com)

0804 GMT - M.J. Gleeson had a firm first half of its financial year and a robust start to the second half, RBC Europe analysts Anthony Codling and Oliver Dyson said. The London-listed low-cost housebuilder and land promoter reiterated its 2025 guidance on Tuesday and is on track to deliver on its expectations over the medium term, the analysts say. "The pace is good and Gleeson has plenty of spring in its step," they write. (cristina.gallardo@wsj.com)

0803 GMT - Bitcoin rises following a rally in U.S. tech stocks overnight, XTB's Kathleen Brooks says in a note. Tech stocks are recovering from a recent selloff led by concerns that Chinese startup DeepSeek's new artificial intelligence could threaten America's dominance in the sector. "Big money is betting that tech will resume its leadership of the U.S. stock market," Brooks says. This suggests stocks could remain resilient to President Trump's tariff threats and his stance on trade policy won't have a negative effect on inflation or global growth. Bitcoin's gains is another sign it is moving closely with U.S. tech stocks. Bitcoin rises 0.9% to $98,303, according to LSEG. (renae.dyer@wsj.com)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250211001668:0/)
