---
title: "Global Equities Roundup: Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-13 10:18:00"
summary: "The latest Market Talks covering Equities. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.2118 ET - Elite UK REIT's distribution per unit is expected to return to a growth trajectory, according to DBS Group Research analysts, raising the REIT's rating to buy from hold and increasing its target price..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The latest Market Talks covering Equities. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.

2118 ET - Elite UK REIT's distribution per unit is expected to return to a growth trajectory, according to DBS Group Research analysts, raising the REIT's rating to buy from hold and increasing its target price to GBP0.36 from GBP0.25. The REIT is projected to post DPU growth over next two years, the analysts say, citing wider net property income margins primarily due to lower vacancy costs and higher interest savings. In addition, the REIT plans to explore repurposing some of its vacant assets for alternative uses, such as student accommodation, which is currently undersupplied in the U.K. This presents an opportunity for the REIT to capitalize on emerging trends in the living sector, the analysts add. Units are unchanged at GBP0.31. (ronnie.harui@wsj.com)

2106 ET - 99 Speed Mart Retail could continue expanding its market share by displacing independent mini-market players in Malaysia, say Citi analysts in a note. The mini-market chain's footprint is at 12% and it is likely to open distribution centers along the east of Malaysia, they write. "Based on [99 Speed Mart Retail's] plan to increase its store count by 250 outlets annually, it would take the company up to end-2027 before cannibalization begins," the analysts say. Citi initiates coverage of the stock with a buy/high risk rating and a target price of MYR2.90. Shares are 0.4% lower at MYR2.25. (amanda.lee@wsj.com)

2055 ET - Hong Leong Bank's 1H FY2025 net profit may rise by mid-to-high single digits on year, driven by strong income growth and cost discipline, though contributions from its associate, Bank of Chengdu, may soften amid China's policy rate cuts, RHB IB analysts say. Nabil Thoo and David Chong say the lender is likely to see robust income growth in 2Q FY2025, with net interest income holding steady. Loan growth may exceed 6%-7% guidance as sequentially weaker ringgit could lead to forex gains, they add. The analysts expect non-interest income for 2Q could also be strong, particularly from treasury and markets income amid a conducive trading environment. RHB maintains a buy rating on Hong Leong Bank and keeps target price at MYR26.60. Shares are 0.5% lower at MYR20.54. (yingxian.wong@wsj.com)

2048 ET - IRPC could incur more impairments on its investment in Ube Chemicals (Asia) following a THB500 million impairment in 4Q, UOB Kay Hian's Arsit Pamaranont says in a research report. In a recent conference call, management disclosed the possibility of further impairment on its investment, the analyst notes. The Thailand-listed integrated petrochemical company also plans to shut down certain unprofitable units this year, which could heighten market worries over additional impairments. The brokerage trims the stock's target price to THB1.25 from THB1.50. However, the bad news is already priced in, the brokerage says as it maintains a buy rating. Shares last quoted at THB1.03. (ronnie.harui@wsj.com)

2042 ET - Chinese shares open lower, weighed by tech hardware and semiconductor stocks. The benchmark Shanghai Composite Index is 0.2% lower at 3340.77, the Shenzhen Composite Index falls 0.3% and the ChiNext Price Index is off 0.3%. Tech stocks lose some momentum after a recent rally driven by AI startup DeepSeek's breakthrough. Foxconn Industrial Internet drops 0.3% and Luxshare Precision Industry is down 1.0%. Semiconductor Manufacturing International Corp. declines 1.1% and Hygon Information Technology sheds 1.85%. Meanwhile, telecom stocks rise. China Mobile is up 0.9% and China Telecom rises 1.0%. (sherry.qin@wsj.com)

2034 ET - Maybank should report steady on-quarter net interest income for 4Q 2024, supported by efforts to manage loan yield and deposit costs, RHB IB analysts David Chong and Nabil Thoo say in a note. Meanwhile noninterest income is expected to have softened on quarter due to lower treasury and markets income, though fee income may have stayed resilient, they say. RHB IB forecasts Maybank's 4Q earnings to fall by low to mid single digits sequentially, but rise on year. It expects seasonally higher operating expenses in 4Q to have weighed on profit. RHB maintains a neutral rating on Maybank and keeps its target price at MYR11.00. Shares are unchanged at MYR10.60. (yingxian.wong@wsj.com)

2028 ET - Hong Kong shares continue open higher, continuing their rally thanks to positive sentiment toward Chinese AI stocks and Alibaba's gains on a potential partnership with Apple. Investors are watching to see if the momentum fueled by Chinese AI startup DeepSeek can last, analysts say. Tech and auto stocks are among the top gainers. Netease and Baidu are up 2.5% and 2.4%, respectively. Li Auto rises 1.7% and Geely gains 1.3%. Alibaba continues its uptrend with a 1.2% rise. Among decliners, JD.com leads losses with a 1.7% fall. Cnooc is down 1.3%. The benchmark Hang Seng Index is up 0.5% at 21958.69 and the Hang Seng Tech Index rises 0.8%.(jiahui.huang@wsj.com; @ivy\_jiahuihuang)

2017 ET - Singapore's FTSE Straits Times Index is little changed at 3875.56 after swinging between mild gains and losses as investors weigh U.S. inflation data released overnight. The data appears to have clouded the prospects for further Fed rate cuts, the Phillip Securities research team says in commentary. The report also raises questions over whether the Fed's progress on bringing down prices was reversing, the team adds. Top advancers include DFI Retail Group, which rises 1.75%, and Singapore Technologies Engineering, which adds 1.0%. Among top decliners, CapitaLand Ascendas REIT falls 2.3% and Thai Beverage is down 1.9%. (ronnie.harui@wsj.com)

2011 ET - Carlsberg Brewery Malaysia's 1Q earnings may dip on quarter due to pre-Lunar New Year front-loading, Maybank IB analyst Jade Tam says in a note. The urgency to raise product prices this year may be less as easing costs for key raw materials like wheat should help stabilize margins despite higher aluminum prices, she says. Tam expects the brewer's 2025 earnings to grow by 4%, supported by moderate volume increases and improved consumer sentiment. Maybank raises Carlsberg's target price to MYR24.40 from MYR23.10 and maintains a buy rating on its undemanding valuations and attractive dividend yield of over 5%. Shares are 0.2% higher at MYR20.30. (yingxian.wong@wsj.com)

2005 ET - Malaysia's benchmark Kuala Lumpur Composite Index is 0.1% higher at 1605.07. Uncertainty may dominate despite the KLCI's Wednesday gains amid external uncertainties, Apex Securities says in a note. However, foreign inflows and increased trading activity after the festive break may support further recovery, the brokerage reckons. Export sectors like technology, furniture and gloves could benefit from a stronger dollar, while plantation stocks may rise with higher CPO prices, it adds. Among gainers, Axiata Group and Gamuda Bhd. each rise 0.9%. Meanwhile, Petronas Chemicals is down 0.7% and CelcomDigi is 0.8% lower. (yingxian.wong@wsj.com)

1935 ET - Domain's first-half result helped send the Australian real-estate advertiser's shares higher in early trade, but it wasn't all good news for Citi analyst Siraj Ahmed. He tells clients in a note that the Nine Entertainment-controlled classifieds group lowered its listings growth outlook, while residential depth revenue growth also slowed in the December quarter. The interim dividend also fell short of the average analyst forecast, he adds. Citi has a last-published neutral rating and A$3.20 target price on the stock, which is up 9.3% at A$2.985. (stuart.condie@wsj.com)

1934 ET - South Korea's benchmark Kospi rises 0.5% to 2560.67 in early trade, as construction and auto stocks advance. Traders are digesting hotter-than-expected U.S. consumer inflation data for January. While foreign investors are net sellers, institutional and retail investors are net buyers. Excavator maker HD Hyundai Construction Equipment climbed 18%, leading a rally in local construction equipment stocks after U.S. President Trump said he and Russian President Putin would open talks to end the war in Ukraine. Hyundai Engineering & Construction rises 3.6%. Carmaker Hyundai Motor advances 3.2%. USD/KRW is flat at 1,453.05 in Seoul onshore trading. South Korea's 10-year government bond yield is up 3.0 bps at 2.879%.(kwanwoo.jun@wsj.com)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250212017062:0/)
