---
title: "Financial Services Roundup: Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-14 01:20:00"
summary: "The latest Market Talks covering Financial Services. Exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires at 4:20 ET, 12:20 ET and 16:50 ET.By Matt Grossman U.S. households took on more debt over the last three months of 2024, and consumer-credit delinquency rates increased, according to new data published by the New York Fed.U.S...."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The latest Market Talks covering Financial Services. Exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires at 4:20 ET, 12:20 ET and 16:50 ET.

By Matt Grossman U.S. households took on more debt over the last three months of 2024, and consumer-credit delinquency rates increased, according to new data published by the New York Fed.

U.S. household debt rose by 0.5% to $18.04 trillion in the quarter, the reserve bank said. Borrowing rose across mortgages, car loans, credit cards and student debt.

Compared with a year earlier, a greater share of consumer loans were also moving into serious delinquency, although the figures were for the most part only up modestly.

The annualized rate of flow into 90-day-or-greater delinquency rose to 1.7% for all household borrowing, up from 1.4% in the fourth quarter of 2023. For credit cards, the flow into serious delinquency climbed to 7.2%, from 6.4% a year earlier, and the flow into auto-loan delinquency increased to 3%, from 2.7% a year earlier. But the flow into student-loan delinquency declined slightly.

Elevated delinquencies on auto loans continue a concerning trend, Fed staff members said.

"High auto loan delinquency rates are broad-based across credit scores and income levels," New York Fed economic research adviser Wilbert van der Klaauw said.

Auto-delinquency rates are higher than pre-pandemic levels for consumers in almost every credit-score category, New York Fed researchers said. Write to Matt Grossman at matt.grossman@wsj.com

1042 ET - A decision by Canada's bank regulator to defer a planned increase to the Basel III standardized capital floor suggests the move has been indefinitely shelved, Scotiabank's Derek Holt suggests. The deferral, following last summer's one-year delay, follows a global pattern, the economist adds. It means Canadian banks won't be at a relative disadvantage to banks in other countries, and most notably in the U.S., in having to set aside more capital. Holt says the competitive equity angle clearly dominated the regulator's decision since its release notes there remains uncertainty about when other jurisdictions will fully implement Basel III. "Under Trump? Likely never." (robb.stewart@wsj.com; @RobbMStewart)

1010 ET - There is a five-month supply of homes for sale in the U.S., up from 4.4 months last year, the highest since early 2019, according to Redfin. Inventory is growing because more sellers are listing homes--new listings increased by 7.4% year over year--while buyer interest wanes, with pending sales down 6%. High housing costs, with median monthly payments nearly at record highs, and a 4.3% rise in home prices, are major deterrents. Mortgage rates are currently at 6.89%, down slightly, but still high compared to pre-and early-pandemic rates. Redfin says there may be an uptick in house hunters soon if mortgage rates start dropping again. (chris.wack@wsj.com)

0959 ET - U.S. housing supply is increasing due to multiple factors, according to Redfin. The fading "mortgage rate lock-in effect" is a key reason. Homeowners with low rates from the pandemic are less reluctant to move despite higher rates now. Homes are staying on the market longer, with January sales taking 56 days on average, the longest since 2020. Demand is cooling as existing home sales dropped 1.7% in January, influenced by a 4.1% rise in median home prices to $418,581, which is 45% higher than pre-pandemic levels. Economic uncertainties like tariffs, federal workforce reductions, and return-to-office policies are also dampening buyer and seller enthusiasm. (chris.wack@wsj.com)

0950 ET - Homebuyers have the most options since 2020, but few are biting because rising housing costs have made monthly payments tough to swallow, Redfin says. Pending home sales in January fell to the lowest level on record aside from the start of the pandemic. They dropped 4.2% month-over- month--the largest decline on a seasonally adjusted basis since August 2023--and 6.3% year-over- year. Meanwhile, active listings of homes for sale rose to the highest level since early in the pandemic. They climbed 0.3% month-over-month on a seasonally adjusted basis in January and 12.9% year-over-year. New listings hit the highest level since July 2022, increasing 1.9% month-over- month and 4.7% year-over-year. (chris.wack@wsj.com)

0818 ET - Demand for stablecoins, or cryptocurrencies that are pegged to another asset like the dollar, could rise further on more crypto-friendly regulation, UBS Global Wealth Management analysts say in a note. The Trump administration's pro-crypto stance could result in greater regulatory clarity and oversight, they say. This could result in increased adoption and greater involvement from major U.S. banks. The EU's MicA regulation could also boost stablecoin adoption. Meanwhile, established fintech platforms like PayPal are integrating stablecoins into their platforms and this could see other financial service providers follow suit. "Several banks are looking at stablecoins as a way to streamline payments and reduce frictions and costs in cross-border transactions, but also to defend their existing business against possible market entrants." (renae.dyer@wsj.com)

0724 ET - Bitcoin edges lower as it struggles for renewed upward momentum in the absence of fresh positive drivers, Zaye Capital Markets analyst Naeem Aslam says in a note. There's no particular reason for bitcoin's current fall but investors are lacking a catalyst that can push the cryptocurrency to new meaningful highs, he says. The main focus is on the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission's decision regarding Grayscale Investments' application to convert its XRP Trust into a spot exchange traded fund. The SEC is expected to acknowledge the ETF Thursday. If approved, the impact on bitcoin could be "slightly positive as it would confirm a more open environment" for trading, Aslam says. Bitcoin falls 1.7% to $96,020, according to LSEG. (renae.dyer@wsj.com)

0424 ET - Barclays's share drop is a buying opportunity, JP Morgan Cazenove says in a research note. The stock fell following 4Q results despite beating estimates, as expectations were already high with shares up 15% year to date, analysts Kian Abouhossein and Sheel Shah write. The company was also hit by restructuring costs that exceeded consensus, which offset revenue momentum in the investment banking division, they add. Still, the British bank is one of analysts' top picks in Europe given its sweet spot exposure to European and U.S. trends. Shares fall 5.2% to 292 pence. (elena.vardon@wsj.com)

0311 ET - Barclays posted a solid set of results but there is little new to get excited about, Citi says in a research note. "This, plus the strong run up in the share price over the past year, may temper any initial reaction, but the stock still appears inexpensive in our view," the analysts write. The British bank posted pretax profit ahead of consensus with a beat in revenue. Its new guidance for 2025 is broadly in line with consensus and 2026 targets were confirmed, they add. Other items, including the 1 billion pound share buyback, also met expectations. Shares fall more than 4% to 294 pence.(elena.vardon@wsj.com)

0241 ET - Commerzbank's midterm plan to 2028 is bullish and the relatively linear progress on its targets is a positive, Deutsche Bank says in a research note after the German lender's update. "While the afternoon session will help to judge the credibility of the bullish new targets, we are particularly encouraged by the positive 2025 guidance, high near-term capital return (12.5% yield for 2025), and a new restructuring program with 500 million euros of savings," analysts Benjamin Goy and Marlene Eibensteiner write. (elena.vardon@wsj.com)

0233 ET - Commerzbank's targets for revenue and operating leverage appear punchy, RBC Capital Markets says in a research note after the German lender outlined a fresh midterm strategy. The new plan points to stronger top-line growth while keeping a lid on costs, with higher capital distributions an extra driver of shareholder returns. The bank is targeting a 15% return on tangible equity--a key profitability measure--for 2028 and a 13.6% return in 2027, ahead of consensus' 11.1% for the latter year. "We are awaiting to get more confidence in the Capital Markets Day presentations with some of this likely to be a function of 'seeing is believing'," analyst Anke Reingen writes. She adds that 2025 guidance points to better profit on higher revenue, which will more than offset higher loan losses. (elena.vardon@wsj.com)

2331 ET - Public Bank's 4Q 2024 profit may decline by mid-to-high single digits sequentially, amid net interest margin pressure and lower pre-emptive provisions reversals, RHB IB analysts David Chong and Nabil Thoo say in a note. Operating income could hold steady, supported by stable loan growth despite deposit competition, they reckon. However, 4Q results may be volatile due to a MYR350 million-MYR520 million goodwill impairment, credit losses in Hong Kong's unit, and LPI Capital's maiden contribution after its stake acquisition, none of which are factored into RHB's forecasts, they say. Still, the market may focus on Public bank's outlook and updates on major shareholder's stake holdings instead of the earnings result, they add. RHB stays neutral on Public Bank and keeps the target price at MYR4.80. Shares are 0.2% lower at MYR4.49.(yingxian.wong@wsj.com)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250213012685:0/)
