---
title: "EU Pledges $200 Billion in AI Spending in Bid to Catch Up With U.S., China"
date: "2025-02-11 18:29:00"
summary: "By Edith Hancock and Mauro OrruThe European Union pledged to mobilize 200 billion euros ($206.15 billion) to invest in artificial intelligence as the bloc seeks to catch up with the U.S. and China in the race to train the most complex models.European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen said at..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Edith Hancock and Mauro Orru

The European Union pledged to mobilize 200 billion euros ($206.15 billion) to invest in artificial intelligence as the bloc seeks to catch up with the U.S. and China in the race to train the most complex models.

European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen said at the AI Action Summit in Paris that the bloc wants to supercharge its ability to compete with the U.S. and China in AI. The plan--dubbed InvestAI--includes a new 20 billion-euro fund for so-called AI gigafactories, infrastructure that relies on powerful chips to train the most complex AI models.

The announcement underscores efforts from the EU to position itself as a key player in the AI race. The bloc has been lagging behind the U.S. and China since OpenAI's 2022 release of ChatGPT ushered in a spending bonanza.

The EU pledge comes a month after Washington announced Stargate, an AI joint venture that aims to build data centers in the U.S. for OpenAI. OpenAI, SoftBank Group, Oracle and MGX are the initial equity funders in Stargate, while Arm, Microsoft and Nvidia are technology partners. The companies are committing $100 billion initially and plan to invest up to $500 billion over the next four years.

News Corp, owner of Dow Jones Newswires and The Wall Street Journal, has a content-licensing partnership with OpenAI.

Write to Edith Hancock at edith.hancock@wsj.com and Mauro Orru at mauro.orru@wsj.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250211002292:0/)
