---
title: "Centuri Holdings, Inc. to Report Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2024 Results on February 26, 2025"
date: "2025-02-13 07:23:00"
summary: "Centuri Holdings, Inc. to Report Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2024 Results on February 26, 2025PHOENIX--(BUSINESS WIRE)--February 12, 2025--Centuri Holdings, Inc. (\"Centuri\" or the \"Company\"), a leading, North American utility infrastructure services company, today announced that it will report 2024 fourth quarter and full year financial results on Wednesday, February..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Centuri Holdings, Inc. to Report Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2024 Results on February 26, 2025

PHOENIX--(BUSINESS WIRE)--February 12, 2025--

Centuri Holdings, Inc. ("Centuri" or the "Company"), a leading, North American utility infrastructure services company, today announced that it will report 2024 fourth quarter and full year financial results on Wednesday, February 26, 2025. The Company will host an earnings conference call that morning at 10:00 AM ET / 8:00 AM MT to discuss the financial results and business highlights. Speakers on the call will include Christian Brown, President & Chief Executive Officer, and Greg Izenstark, Chief Financial Officer.

The conference call will be webcast live on the Company's investor relations (IR) website at https://investor.centuri.com.

```
   
Date:                 Wednesday, February 26, 2025   
Time:                 10:00 AM ET / 8:00 AM MT   
Telephone number:     (800) 549-8228   
 
```

The earnings call will also be archived on Centuri's IR website. Alternatively, a replay of the call will be available by dialing (888) 660-6264 and entering passcode 13315#. The replay dial-in feature will be made available approximately one hour after the call's conclusion and will be active for one month.

About Centuri

Centuri Holdings, Inc. is a strategic utility infrastructure services company that partners with regulated utilities to build and maintain the energy network that powers millions of homes and businesses across the United States and Canada.

Forward-Looking Statements

This press release may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, Section 27A of the Securities Act, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. These forward-looking statements can often be identified by the use of words such as "will," "predict," "continue," "forecast," "expect," "believe," "anticipate," "outlook," "could," "target," "project," "intend," "plan," "seek," "estimate," "should," "may" and "assume," as well as variations of such words and similar expressions referring to the future. Forward-looking statements could include (without limitation) statements regarding our confidence in our prospects to deliver value for our stockholders as an independent standalone company and our expectation to continue to build on our track record of delivering consistent growth by serving our customers across the utility value chain. A number of important factors affecting the business and financial results of Centuri could cause actual results to differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statements. These factors include, but are not limited to, capital market risks and the impact of general economic or industry conditions. Factors that could cause actual results to differ also include (without limitation) those discussed in Centuri's filings filed from time to time with the SEC. The statements in this press release are made as of the date of this press release, even if subsequently made available by Centuri on its website or otherwise. Centuri does not assume any obligation to update any forward-looking statements, whether written or oral, that may be made from time to time, whether as a result of new information, future developments, or otherwise.

View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20250212816834/en/

CONTACT: For Centuri Shareholders, contact:

(623) 879-3700

Investors@Centuri.com

For Centuri media information, contact:

Jennifer Russo

(602) 781-6958

JRusso@Centuri.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250212016365:0/)
