---
title: "10-year Treasury yield has biggest one-day jump of 2025 after hot inflation data"
date: "2025-02-13 00:40:00"
summary: "By Vivien Lou Chen and Jamie ChisholmU.S. government debt aggressively sold off on Wednesday, pushing the benchmark 10-year yield up for a fifth straight session, after the consumer-price index for January came in higher than expected and raised doubts about the Federal Reserve's ability to keep cutting interest rates.What's happeningThe..."
categories:
  - "MarketWatch"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "MarketWatch"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Vivien Lou Chen and Jamie Chisholm

U.S. government debt aggressively sold off on Wednesday, pushing the benchmark 10-year yield up for a fifth straight session, after the consumer-price index for January came in higher than expected and raised doubts about the Federal Reserve's ability to keep cutting interest rates.

What's happening

* The yield on the 2-year Treasury BX:TMUBMUSD02Y rose 7.6 basis points to 4.366%, from 4.290% on Tuesday. Yields move in the opposite direction to prices.
* The yield on the 10-year Treasury BX:TMUBMUSD10Y spiked 12 basis points to 4.656%, from 4.536% on Tuesday.
* The yield on the 30-year Treasury BX:TMUBMUSD30Y climbed 10.8 basis points to 4.857%, from 4.749% on Tuesday.

What's driving markets

In data released on Wednesday, the U.S. consumer-price index for January came in hotter than expected. The index rose 0.5% for the month, pushing the annual headline rate of inflation to 3%. Meanwhile, the narrower core reading, which excludes food and energy, jumped 0.4%, lifting the 12-month increase to 3.3%.

The report prompted fed-funds futures traders to pull back on the likelihood of two rate cuts by December. However, Josh Jamner, an investment strategy analyst at ClearBridge Investments, went even further by saying the data is the "final nail in the coffin" for the Fed's rate-cutting cycle. Meanwhile, Jeffrey Rosenkranz, a portfolio manager at Shelton Capital Management, said in a phone interview that "this will call into question whether the next move is a hike rather than a cut."

"The bottom line is clear," said portfolio manager Dan Siluk, head of global short duration and liquidity at Janus Henderson Investors. "The Fed should not be cutting. No matter which way the Fed chooses to slice and dice the data - headline, core, supercore - all came in higher than expectations. Both 3-month and 6-month annualized reads are also moving higher. While early-year CPI reads are notorious for seasonality and distortions, the labor market is clearly stable and economic conditions don't warrant easier conditions."

Federal Reserve Chair Jerome Powell began a second day of testimony to Congress on Wednesday. In written remarks, he reiterated to the House Financial Services Committee that inflation remains somewhat elevated and longer-term expectations for future price gains appears to be well-anchored. Powell also repeated that officials are in no hurry to adjust interest rates.

-Vivien Lou Chen -Jamie Chisholm

This content was created by MarketWatch, which is operated by Dow Jones & Co. MarketWatch is published independently from Dow Jones Newswires and The Wall Street Journal.

[MarketWatch](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_SN20250212003517:0/)
