---
title: "Canadian Tire Sees Tariff Threat Dragging on Budding Consumer Confidence, Sales — Update"
date: "2025-02-14 00:58:00"
summary: "By Adriano MarcheseCanadian Tire posted fourth-quarter results that showed improved shopping patterns, but executives say those gains are undermined by the looming tariff war between Canada and the U.S.The Canadian retailer, known for selling everything from tires to sporting goods and workwear, said Thursday it has already taken steps, including..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Adriano Marchese

Canadian Tire posted fourth-quarter results that showed improved shopping patterns, but executives say those gains are undermined by the looming tariff war between Canada and the U.S.

The Canadian retailer, known for selling everything from tires to sporting goods and workwear, said Thursday it has already taken steps, including locking in prices of U.S. imports, that will shield consumers from immediate price increases this year. About 15% of its products come from its southern neighbor.

However, executives at the chain cautioned that the threat of tariffs threatens to have a broader impact on consumer spending the longer the dispute drags on.

"We're going to do our absolute level best to insulate our customers as much as we can from higher costs," Chief Executive Greg Hicks said.

The retailer's sales results are getting a boost from lower interest rates which have bolstered consumer sentiment by the end of 2024, helping lift sales across its banners including Canadian Tire Retail, sporting goods brand SportsChek and its workwear clothing brand Mark's. The holiday shopping period, which included Black Friday and Cyber Monday, provided a late-year boost, returning retail sales to growth with a 1.1% increase in the fourth quarter.

While the sales growth is providing a dose of optimism, Hicks said tariffs are keeping his exuberance in check.

"I suspect the consumer confidence uptick ... has now been substantially erased with tariff talk," Hicks said.

Canadian consumers were already on the cautious side. Within that, Canadian Tire said products like hockey and fishing gear were up, while seasonal products, such as Christmas lights, weren't as sought after.

Executives said they can pivot to alternative suppliers from the U.S. but they aren't rushing to take action just yet. The U.S. and Canada agreed to put a pause on the bulk of tariffs until March. Canadian Tire executives have given themselves roughly three months before making decisions on how it will stock up for the end of the year.

"We have identified potential actions and we will monitor the economy and consumer demand over the course of the next 100 days before needing to make a call on our growth and buying assumptions for the fall-winter season," Hicks said.

The company said it remains focused on controlling the controllables and managing its margin and costs.

In the fourth quarter, Canadian Tire's total sales rose 1.6% to 4.51 billion Canadian dollars ($3.15 billion), short of analyst expectations C$4.6 billion, according to FactSet.

Profit rose to C$411.5 million, or C$7.37 a share, up from C$172.5 million, or C$3.09 a share, in the comparable quarter a year ago. On an adjusted basis, earnings of C$4.07 a share missed expectations of C$4.27 a share.

In recent trading, shares fell 3.2% to C$152.44, erasing most of the year's gains so far. The stock is still up about 10% over the past 52 weeks.

Write to Adriano Marchese at adriano.marchese@wsj.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250213012196:0/)
