---
title: "Segro Swings to Pretax Profit, Rental Income Rises"
date: "2025-02-14 15:29:00"
summary: "(07:01 GMT) *Segro 2024 New Headline Rent GBP91M(07:02 GMT) *Segro 2024 Pre-Items, Pre-Tax Pft GBP470M Vs. Pft GBP409M(07:03 GMT) *Segro 2024 Net Rental Income GBP628M(07:03 GMT) *Segro Analysts Saw Net Rental Income at GBP578.6M(07:04 GMT) *Segro 2024 Pretax Pft GBP636M Vs. Loss GBP263M(07:05 GMT) *Segro Declares Dividend of 29.3p(07:07 GMT)..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

**(07:01 GMT)** \*Segro 2024 New Headline Rent GBP91M  
**(07:02 GMT)** \*Segro 2024 Pre-Items, Pre-Tax Pft GBP470M Vs. Pft GBP409M  
**(07:03 GMT)** \*Segro 2024 Net Rental Income GBP628M  
**(07:03 GMT)** \*Segro Analysts Saw Net Rental Income at GBP578.6M  
**(07:04 GMT)** \*Segro 2024 Pretax Pft GBP636M Vs. Loss GBP263M  
**(07:05 GMT)** \*Segro Declares Dividend of 29.3p  
**(07:07 GMT)** \*Segro 2024 Portfolio Value Rose 1.1%  
**(07:29 GMT)** Segro Swings to Pretax Profit, Rental Income Rises

By Anthony O. Goriainoff

Segro said it swung to a pretax profit as rental income increased, and that the business was primed for further growth.

The U.K. real-estate investment trust said on Friday that 2024 pretax profit was 636 million pounds ($799.2 million) compared with a pretax loss of 263 million pounds the year before.

Adjusted pretax profit--the company's preferred metric, which strips out exceptional and other one-off items--was 470 million pounds compared with 409 million pounds.

Headline rent rose to 91 million pounds from 88 million pounds the year prior.

Net rental income rose to 628 million pounds from 587 million pounds, driven by strong like-for-like rental growth of 5.8% and development completions. Consensus for the metric was 578.6 million pounds, taken from FactSet and based on three analysts' forecast.

Adjusted net asset value--a key metric for the industry--stood at 907 pence a share at Dec. 31, flat on the year prior, reflecting a 1.1% like-for-like portfolio value rise versus a 4% decline the year before.

The board declared a final dividend of 20.2 pence a share, up from 19.1 pence the year prior, taking the full year dividend to 29.3 pence, a 5.4% rise.

"Momentum has carried into the early weeks of 2025, and we take confidence from the positive conversations we are having with our customers across all of our markets.," Chief Executive David Sleath said.

Write to Anthony O. Goriainoff at anthony.orunagoriainoff@dowjones.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250214002253:0/)
