---
title: "Energy Marketers Ask EPA to Extend Midwestern Gasoline Volatility Waiver — OPIS"
date: "2025-02-13 06:08:00"
summary: "A fuel sales trade group is calling on the Trump administration to delay until April 2026 a decision allowing eight Midwestern states to remove the 1-lb psi Reid vapor pressure volatility waiver for E10 blends.In a letter to Lee Zeldin, the new administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, the Energy..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

A fuel sales trade group is calling on the Trump administration to delay until April 2026 a decision allowing eight Midwestern states to remove the 1-lb psi Reid vapor pressure volatility waiver for E10 blends.

In a letter to Lee Zeldin, the new administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, the Energy Marketers of America group warns that removing the waiver could lead to insufficient gasoline supply in the region and create a boutique fuels market in those states that could impact the entire region.

In 2022, eight Midwestern states petitioned to have the 1-lb waiver removed, but opponents of the move have largely succeeded in getting it delayed, with claims that the region might not have enough low-RVP supply of gasoline. The measure is designed so that a low-RVP gasoline blendstock can be easily procured for ethanol blends that top the current 10% share.

The petitioning states are Illinois, Iowa, Minnesota, Missouri, Nebraska, Ohio, South Dakota and Wisconsin.

In the EMA letter, President Rob Underwood said that conditions that led the Biden administration to initially delay implementing the waiver remain in place.

He said extending the delay would allow EPA and Congress the time to "put in place policies that support renewable liquid fuels for generations."

"EMA does not oppose legislation to exempt E15 gasoline from the RVP volatility requirements that effectively block sales during the summertime driving season. We believe that an extension of the optout deadline into 2026 provides the necessary time for Congress, industry, and the Trump administration to develop an effective biofuels policy that balances environmental, energy, cost, and infrastructure realities," Underwood wrote.

EMA is not the first group seeking to delay the waiver. In November, the American Fuel & Petrochemical Manufacturers petitioned then-EPA Administrator Michael Regan for a delay until April 2026.

This content was created by Oil Price Information Service, which is operated by Dow Jones & Co. OPIS is run independently from Dow Jones Newswires and The Wall Street Journal.

* Reporting by Steve Cronin, scronin@opisnet.com; Editing by Michael Kelly, mkelly@opisnet.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250212015500:0/)
