---
title: "Heard on the Street Tuesday Recap — WSJ"
date: "2025-02-12 06:45:00"
summary: "By Heard EditorsMarkets again showed resiliency by shrugging off negative headlines. These included comments by Federal Reserve Chair Jerome Powell that the central bank doesn't see \"any reason to be in a hurry\" to keep lowering rates, and warnings from business leaders about the impact of tariffs. The S&amp;P 500..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Heard Editors

Markets again showed resiliency by shrugging off negative headlines. These included comments by Federal Reserve Chair Jerome Powell that the central bank doesn't see "any reason to be in a hurry" to keep lowering rates, and warnings from business leaders about the impact of tariffs. The S&P 500 ended the day flat, while the Dow rose 0.3% and the Nasdaq fell 0.4%.

Ford and Coca-Cola's chief executives both sounded alarms on tariffs. Ford's Jim Farley said the threat of tariffs and other sudden policy changes are causing "a lot of cost and a lot of chaos." Coca-Cola's James Quincey said tariffs on aluminum could increase the price of soda cans in the U.S.

Intel stock soared 6.1%. The rally came after Vice President JD Vance pledged at a Paris summit to ensure powerful artificial-intelligence chips are designed and made in the U.S.

But Tesla fell sharply for a second straight day. On Monday it may have been news of advancements in self-driving by Chinese rival BYD that drove Tesla shares down 3%. On Tuesday it appeared to be the bid led by Elon Musk for OpenAI that was behind Tesla's 6.3% decline, as this threatens to become another divisive distraction for Tesla's chief executive.

Phillips 66 rallied 4.7% on a higher activist stake. Elliott Investment Management on Tuesday disclosed a stake in the refiner valued at more than $2.5 billion, up from roughly $1 billion in 2023. Heard on the Street's Jinjoo Lee argues that the company has made progress on cost-cutting since Elliott's initial approach in 2023, but not enough as it still looks less efficient than competitors.

This analysis comes from the Journal's Heard on the Street team. Subscribe to their free daily afternoon newsletter here.

This item is part of a Wall Street Journal live coverage event. The full stream can be found by searching P/WSJL (WSJ Live Coverage).

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250211012472:0/)
