---
title: "Oil prices shake off tariff worries to finish higher after 3 straight weekly declines"
date: "2025-02-11 04:19:00"
summary: "By William WattsOil futures rose Monday, finding support after three straight weekly declines that took crude to its lows of the new year, with traders appearing to shake off worries surrounding another round of tariffs set to be imposed by President Trump.Price movesWest Texas Intermediate crude CL00 for March delivery..."
categories:
  - "MarketWatch"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "MarketWatch"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By William Watts

Oil futures rose Monday, finding support after three straight weekly declines that took crude to its lows of the new year, with traders appearing to shake off worries surrounding another round of tariffs set to be imposed by President Trump.

Price moves

* West Texas Intermediate crude CL00 for March delivery CL.1 CLH25 rose $1, or 1.4%, to $72 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange.
* April Brent crude BRN00 BRNJ25, the global benchmark, was up $1.05, or 1.4%, at $75.71 a barrel on ICE Futures Europe.

Market drivers

President Trump said Sunday he would announce 25% tariffs on all steel and aluminum imports into the U.S. He added that he plans to announce a series of reciprocal tariffs on Tuesday or Wednesday. Trump said on Friday that reciprocal tariffs were forthcoming - potentially against imports from China, Japan, Taiwan and the European Union, as well as other countries that already impose tariffs against American goods.

Oil ended Friday with a third straight weekly fall amid rising U.S. inventories and worries that the Trump administration's tariff strategy will dent economic growth and demand for crude in China and elsewhere.

Those concerns may be offset by the perception of oil as a hedge against inflation.

"Inflationary fears have grown with the tightening of trade policies and rising costs of key inputs. This has led to increased demand for oil from investors seeking protection against potential currency devaluation and the overall rise in prices across the economy," Antonio Di Giacomo, senior analyst at XS.com, said in a note.

"In this context, the oil market faces a challenging outlook where geopolitical and economic tensions play a key role in price formation. As the countries involved in this trade dispute continue to impose measures and countermeasures, uncertainty will shape crude oil prices in international markets," he said.

-William Watts

This content was created by MarketWatch, which is operated by Dow Jones & Co. MarketWatch is published independently from Dow Jones Newswires and The Wall Street Journal.

[MarketWatch](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_SN20250210004676:0/)
