---
title: "Global Equities Roundup: Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-11 16:05:00"
summary: "The latest Market Talks covering Equities. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.0804 GMT - M.J. Gleeson had a firm first half of its financial year and a robust start to the second half, RBC Europe analysts Anthony Codling and Oliver Dyson said. The London-listed low-cost housebuilder and..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The latest Market Talks covering Equities. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.

0804 GMT - M.J. Gleeson had a firm first half of its financial year and a robust start to the second half, RBC Europe analysts Anthony Codling and Oliver Dyson said. The London-listed low-cost housebuilder and land promoter reiterated its 2025 guidance on Tuesday and is on track to deliver on its expectations over the medium term, the analysts say. "The pace is good and Gleeson has plenty of spring in its step," they write. (cristina.gallardo@wsj.com)

0803 GMT - Bitcoin rises following a rally in U.S. tech stocks overnight, XTB's Kathleen Brooks says in a note. Tech stocks are recovering from a recent selloff led by concerns that Chinese startup DeepSeek's new artificial intelligence could threaten America's dominance in the sector. "Big money is betting that tech will resume its leadership of the U.S. stock market," Brooks says. This suggests stocks could remain resilient to President Trump's tariff threats and his stance on trade policy won't have a negative effect on inflation or global growth. Bitcoin's gains is another sign it is moving closely with U.S. tech stocks. Bitcoin rises 0.9% to $98,303, according to LSEG. (renae.dyer@wsj.com)

0759 GMT - BYD's new driving-assistance system is notable as it brings advanced autonomous-driving technology to the masses with a price tag of under 100,000 yuan, Bernstein analysts write in a note. One key challenge that had weighed on BYD's stock previously was its laggard status in driving-assistance tech, they note. BYD's launch demonstrates the company's ability to catch up with competitors, they say. BYD has outpaced rivals in investing in R&D, and boasts a considerably bigger research team of more than 110,000 engineers, including more than 5,000 dedicated to its advanced driver-assistance system, Bernstein says. The asset management firm maintains a buy rating on the stock with a target price of HK$350.00. Shares are last at HK$328.80. (jiahui.huang@wsj.com; @ivy\_jiahuihuang)

0758 GMT - BYD'S aggressive approach to install its new smart driving system directly challenges Tesla's full self-driving system, which is scheduled for launch in China, DBS says in a research note. On Monday, the Chinese auto maker introduced its advanced driver-assistance system across its vehicle models under its brands Ocean, Dynasty, Denza and Yangwang. BYD's emphasis on affordability and widespread adoption of the smart driving features is "a key differentiator compared to peers," the note says. Given that the mass market accounts for a significant proportion of the auto market, BYD is ahead of its peers in the autonomous driving assistance field, it adds. Shares were last at HK$328.40. (sherry.qin@wsj.com)

0752 GMT - UniCredit's outlook for the years ahead and its better-than-expected results shouldn't disappoint the market, Keefe, Bruyette & Woods says in a research note after the Italian bank's fourth-quarter print. The earnings beat was solid due to better net interest income, while some items were weaker than estimates, analysts Hugo Cruz and Ben Maher write. "We think that is mainly "front loading" ahead of 2025," they say, referring to expenses taken during the end of last year. The net profit, net revenue and return on tangible equity guidance for 2025 surpasses current consensus estimates for the year, they add. (elena.vardon@wsj.com)

0747 GMT - Kering's results should reassure investors that trends are modestly improving, RBC Capital Markets analysts Piral Dadhania and Richard Chamberlain say in a note. The French luxury group reported 4Q revenue of 4.39 billion euros, down 12% on year. Gucci reported a 24% decline in revenue, but retail sales improved compared with 3Q. Revenue acceleration at Gucci was less pronounced compared with peers, which suggests the relative performance gap hasn't yet closed, the analysts say. However, with the new brand CEO Stefano Cantino apparently willing to make bold changes, including changing creative director, the worst could be left behind, they say. "The timing for a potential reset remains unclear at this stage." Shares are down nearly 41% over the past 12 months. (andrea.figueras@wsj.com)

0746 GMT - Nordic markets are seen opening slightly lower, with IG calling the OMXS30 down 0.2% at around 2653. Stock markets defied new steel tariffs yesterday as European equity markets rose to new all-time highs, while U.S. stocks also moved higher, SEB analysts say in a note. President Trump's planned 25% tariffs on steel and aluminum will cover all trading partners, include processed steel products, and will enter into force on March 4. Chinese stock markets are under moderate pressure today and both U.S. and European stock market futures are pointing slightly down. The highlight of the day is testimony by Fed Chair Jerome Powell in Congress. The OMXS30 closed at 2658.29, OMXN40 at 2608.05 and OBX at 1401.79. (dominic.chopping@wsj.com)

0736 GMT - BYD's introduction of its driving assistance system--God's Eye--is marginally positive for the company and could help sustain its high market share, Jefferies analysts write in a note. The Chinese automaker plans to roll out the technology for its models in all price ranges, they note. The move will likely accelerate the adoption rate of assisted driving function in the mass market and lead to a wave of upgrades by existing users, they say. Jefferies maintains its buy rating for the stock. Shares last at HK$330.00. (jiahui.huang@wsj.com; @ivy\_jiahuihuang)

0735 GMT - South Korea's benchmark Kospi rose 0.7% to close at 2539.05, with foreign and institutional investors being net buyers. Traders largely shrugged off President Trump's additional 25% tariffs on steel and aluminum--the latest in a series of tariff threats and impositions in the first few weeks of his second term. Some analysts suggest that markets may have either preemptively priced in the impact of these policies or view them as bargaining chips. Hyundai Steel ended flat. Earnings were also in focus, with howitzer maker Hanwha Aerospace jumping 21% after strong 4Q results. USD/KRW settled 0.1% higher at 1,452.60 in Seoul onshore trading. South Korea's 10-year government bond yield was down 0.8 bp at 2.822%. (kwanwoo.jun@wsj.com)

0724 GMT - The FTSE 100 is expected to open lower as Federal Reserve Chair Jerome Powell begins a two-day testimony before Congress. The index is expected to open seven points, or 0.1%, lower, according to IG. It closed 67 points higher, or 0.8%, to 8767 points Monday. Powell is likely to indicate the Fed is in no hurry to cut interest rates further but would keep the door open for cuts, Jefferies economist Mohit Kumar says in a note. "Our view remains that we should get two more rate cuts from the Fed with the next cut likely in June." Powell will address the Senate Banking Committee at 1500 GMT and the House Financial Services Committee the same time Wednesday. (renae.dyer@wsj.com)

0723 GMT - Chinese shares ended lower, with declines led by consumer and property stocks. Consumer sentiment remained relatively weak despite China's cabinet pledges to boost spending and attract foreign investment. Poly Developments & Holdings Group dropped 2.1% and China Vanke was down 2.4%. Yonghui Superstores slid 3.05% and Yifeng Pharmacy Chain shed 1.7%. Semiconductor Manufacturing International Corp. ended 2.9% lower ahead of its 4Q results. Oil stocks broadly rose, with Cnooc up 1.7% and PetroChina rising 0.7%. The benchmark Shanghai Composite Index ended 0.1% lower at 3318.06, the Shenzhen Composite Index put off 0.5% and the ChiNext Price Index fell 1.4%. (sherry.qin@wsj.com)

0714 GMT - SGS's 2024 results show the company's strong execution toward its 2027 plan, but its outlook for the year ahead seems conservative, Bernstein's Will Kirkness and Filippo Giardini say in a research note. The Swiss testing, inspection and certification company expects organic sales growth of 5% to 7%, against Bernstein's forecast of 6.7% and consensus estimates of 5.9%, the analysts say. It expects an improvement of at least 30 basis points in its adjusted operating profit margin relative to the 15.3% margin it reported for 2024. This compares with Bernstein's estimate of 16% and the consensus of 15.7%, the analysts say. "We view the outlook as conservative and contingent on further [foreign-exchange] developments," they add. (adria.calatayud@wsj.com)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250211001492:0/)
