---
title: "News Highlights: Top Global Markets News of the Day - Monday at 7 AM ET"
date: "2025-02-10 20:15:00"
summary: "Tech Firms Want to Upend the Pentagon. The Old Defense Guard Has Lessons for Them.Upstart defense contractors such as Palantir are on the rise. In the future, though, they may not be immune to the problems that have burned their legacy peers.Asian Stock Markets Mixed on Trump's Steel, Aluminum Tariff..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

**Tech Firms Want to Upend the Pentagon. The Old Defense Guard Has Lessons for Them.**

Upstart defense contractors such as Palantir are on the rise. In the future, though, they may not be immune to the problems that have burned their legacy peers.

**Asian Stock Markets Mixed on Trump's Steel, Aluminum Tariff Talk**

Asian equity markets were mixed while most base metal prices rose as investors and traders weighed President Trump's pledge to impose 25% tariff on steel and aluminum imports.

**For CEOs and Bankers, the Trump Euphoria Is Fading Fast**

The deals market had its quietest January in a decade, curtailed by the uncertainty delivered in the president's first weeks.

**China's Strategy in Trade War: Threaten U.S. Tech Companies**

Officials in Beijing are building a list of potential targets for antitrust probes, hoping to influence tech executives close to President Trump.

**Trump's Next Round of Tariffs-25% on Steel and Aluminum-Won't Be So Easily Averted**

Reciprocal tariffs on trading partners are also in the mix as officials say "punitive" tariffs on Mexico and Canada were only a small slice of trade agenda.

**France Taps Nuclear Power for New AI Training Cluster**

Macron aims to dedicate a gigawatt of nuclear power to create one of the world's largest AI-computing facilities.

**Trump Tells U.S. Treasury to Stop Minting Pennies**

In a post on Truth Social, Trump wrote that the U.S. has minted the one-cent coins, "which literally cost us more than 2 cents," for "far too long."

**Vance, Musk Criticize Federal Judge for Blocking DOGE From Treasury System**

The broadside against the court order signals tensions ahead between the White House and the judiciary.

**China's Consumer Inflation Accelerated in January**

China's consumer inflation accelerated in January as food and service prices climbed ahead of the Lunar New Year holiday, official data showed Sunday.

**A Rothschild Who Crusaded for Kinder Capitalism Adjusts to the Trump Era**

Lynn Forester de Rothschild said that ESG investing to push companies to treat the environment and workers better is no longer the right approach.

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250210004000:0-news-highlights-top-global-markets-news-of-the-day-monday-at-7-am-et/)
