---
title: "Trump Administration Sues New York Officials, Revokes Funding Over Immigration — WSJ"
date: "2025-02-13 08:31:00"
summary: "By Victoria Albert and Michelle HackmanThe federal government has clawed back $80 million in funding allocated to help New York City house and care for migrants, marking the latest clash between the Trump administration's cost-cutting efforts and state and city officials.\"Let's be clear: This is highway robbery,\" New York City..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Victoria Albert and Michelle Hackman

The federal government has clawed back $80 million in funding allocated to help New York City house and care for migrants, marking the latest clash between the Trump administration's cost-cutting efforts and state and city officials.

"Let's be clear: This is highway robbery," New York City Comptroller Brad Lander said on Wednesday. "This is the federal government having already allocated, authorized, awarded, invoiced and paid $80.5 million to the city of New York."

Homeland Security Secretary Kristi Noem said Wednesday that she had revoked funds sent by the Federal Emergency Management Agency to house migrants in city hotels.

"Mark my words: there will not be a single penny spent that goes against the interest and safety of the American people," she said in a post on X.

The Trump administration, at the direction of billionaire Elon Musk's Department of Government Efficiency, has been ordering federal funding that goes against the president's agenda be frozen — including funding that was already allocated by Congress.

The money at issue in New York was a payment through FEMA's Shelter and Services Program, a funding stream Congress set up to help cities, states and nonprofits across the country deal with an influx of migration. Since 2022, tens of thousands of migrants have arrived in New York.

Trump officials object to that money on the grounds that it reimburses cities with sanctuary policies they oppose, such as declining to cooperate with federal immigration authorities on arrests. Top Trump administration officials have falsely claimed that the money is coming out of FEMA's disaster relief budget, a separate funding stream.

New York City Mayor Eric Adams said his office learned about the funding revocation Wednesday morning and was exploring litigation options.

"While we conduct an internal investigation into how this occurred, our office has already engaged with the White House about recouping these funds and we've requested an emergency meeting with FEMA to try and resolve the matter as quickly as possible," the mayor said in a post on X.

The takeback comes after the Justice Department ordered federal prosecutors in Manhattan to drop their bribery case against the New York City mayor earlier this week. Adams had been charged in September with taking illegal campaign contributions and accepting $100,000 in travel and hotel perks in exchange for official acts. Adams, a Democrat, has denied wrongdoing.

The city's comptroller urged Adams to push back forcefully against the federal removal of funds. "This is the first critical test of whether we still have independent leadership at City Hall," Lander said.

Lander said the revocation could violate a judge's recent order to restore federal funding that the Trump administration had tried to freeze.

The funding for housing migrants in the city gained national attention on Monday after close Trump adviser Elon Musk tweeted that FEMA "sent $59M LAST WEEK to luxury hotels in New York City to house illegal migrants."

Lander said that federal funds weren't spent on extravagant housing. The Shelter and Services Program has a $12.50 cap per night on hotel and shelter pricing, he said, with the city making up the difference.

The city had received about $200 million already, Lander said, including the $80 million, which was allocated across fiscal years 2023 and 2024. It also expected to receive another $37 million. The mayor's office said the city has spent more than $7 billion on migrant services.

In response to Musk's social-media post, FEMA's acting administrator, Cameron Hamilton, said on X that those payments "have all been suspended" and pledged to hold people accountable.

The Trump administration fired four FEMA officials on Tuesday, including the agency's chief financial officer, accusing them of "circumventing leadership to unilaterally make egregious payments for luxury NYC hotels for migrants."

Write to Victoria Albert at victoria.albert@wsj.com and Michelle Hackman at michelle.hackman@wsj.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250212016163:0/)
