---
title: "Global Commodities Roundup: Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-12 01:15:00"
summary: "The latest Market Talks covering Commodities. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.1200 ET - Base metal prices fall, with LME three-month copper down 1% at $9,358 a metric ton and LME three-month aluminum down 0.85% at $2,638.50 a ton. Metal prices sit higher on-week however, after President..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The latest Market Talks covering Commodities. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.

1200 ET - Base metal prices fall, with LME three-month copper down 1% at $9,358 a metric ton and LME three-month aluminum down 0.85% at $2,638.50 a ton. Metal prices sit higher on-week however, after President Trump formalized 25% tariffs on all aluminum and steel imports, removing prior exemptions, Morgan Stanley analysts say in a note. The tariffs will likely raise costs for U.S. aluminum users, predominantly via a higher Midwest premium, which has already jumped from 16% of the LME price in November to 29%--and could rise higher, Morgan Stanley analysts write. The copper spread has also widened, with U.S. commodities exchange Comex now trading at an 11% premium to the LME, from a normal level of 0%-2%. This suggests the market is anticipating future tariffs on copper, Morgan Stanley adds. (joseph.hoppe@wsj.com)

1110 ET - Ford could face layoffs if Trump gets rid of certain legislation that Biden passed to support electric vehicle production. CEO Jim Farley said he is concerned about Trump repealing parts of the Inflation Reduction Act, which incentivized various green-energy efforts including electric vehicle production. Ford has already sunk capital into initiatives that would benefit from the IRA, and expects it would have to cut jobs at plants across the country if large parts of the IRA is repealed. Farley said he is visiting D.C. on Wednesday for the second time in three weeks to try to highlight how much policy uncertainty is weighing on the auto industry. (katherine.hamilton@wsj.com)

1108 ET - Tariffs are bringing "cost and chaos" to Ford in the immediate term, Chief Executive Jim Farley said during a call. Tariffs on vehicles and components Ford ships into the U.S. from Mexico and Canada would be devastating. Meanwhile, competitors in South Korea, Japan and Europe, which bring in millions of vehicles into the U.S., would experience significant windfall from not being subject to tariffs, Farley said. Ford gets about 90% of its steel domestically and isn't worried about aluminium duties, but tariffs could drive up the market price for those goods. (katherine.hamilton@wsj.com)

1103 ET - The most-active live cattle contract on the CME is down 1.3% to $1.955 a pound, the lowest cattle has traded since January 8. The contract is off roughly 6% since a record high of $2.07 a pound in late January. The cattle market needed a breather from its run-up spanning back to last September, says AgResource in a note. "The market needed a correction," the firm says. Slaughter data is painting a mixed picture for cattle futures, where slaughters are down but average cattle weights are higher. Lean hogs are up 0.7%. (kirk.maltais@wsj.com)

1047 ET - The confirmation of new tariffs on steel and aluminum imports into the U.S. does not appear to be a concern for traders of CBOT grain futures — this even as U.S. grains are believed to be a prime target for any retaliatory tariffs from aggrieved nations like China. Owning corn in particular is seen as a hedge, says Tomm Pfitzenmaier of Summit Commodity Brokerage in a note. "The funds… continue to want to own corn as part of a strategy to own commodities as an inflation hedge with traders fearful that tariffs along with other Trump policies will be inflationary," he says. Funds are holding a huge long position in corn futures, signifying that they expect higher corn prices to come. Most-active corn is up 0.7%. (kirk.maltais@wsj.com)

0946 ET - Forecasts for cold weather over the next 10 days, including a winter storm into the Midwest and Northeast, are giving natural gas futures an additional lift. "Possible well freeze-offs in the Appalachian northeast are keeping the bullish trend alive," BOK Financial's Dennis Kissler says. "Much colder temperatures this winter versus a year ago and rising LNG demand is making a statement." Kissler also notes European gas prices at 2-year highs given faster-than-expected depletion of storage. The Nymex front month is up 2.9% at $3.543/mmBtu. (anthony.harrup@wsj.com)

0943 ET - Base metal prices fall, with LME three-month copper down 1.3% at $9,332.50 a metric ton and LME three-month aluminum down 0.9% at $2,636 a ton. President Trump's latest 25% tariffs on all aluminum imports, effective March 12, is expected to bolster the U.S. Midwest price premium for the metal, Citi analysts say in a note. The market is currently underpricing such a measure, Citi says. No exemptions have been made for any countries or products, though Trump mentioned he is considering an exemption for Australia. Assuming no exemptions are made, the U.S. premium over LME prices is likely to rise to just under 40 cents a pound, Citi says. This will increase all-in aluminum costs for U.S. industries like automotive, construction and packaging, and will disrupt the global aluminum supply chain, Citi adds. (joseph.hoppe@wsj.com)

0939 ET - Coca-Cola CEO James Quincey says on a call with analysts that he's "focusing on innovation that prioritizes bigger and bolder bets," all of which serve specific purposes. This strategy led to a collaboration between Coca-Cola and Oreo, the objective of which was to create short-term buzz and resulted in limited-time drink and cookie offerings, he says. "In other instances, we innovate for lasting impact," Quincey adds. This was the case in expanding the company's portfolio of teas, sparkling waters and juices, which Quincey says are driving revenue growth. Shares rise 4% in early trading. (connor.hart@wsj.com)

0932 ET - President Trump's reintroduced Section 232 steel and aluminum tariffs, which cover all "melted and poured" imports of those metals from anywhere in the world, are expected to be met with retaliation from major metal producers like the EU, says ING Economics in a note. "Retaliation is on, and it's going to get nasty," says the firm, adding that when Trump issued metal tariffs during his first term, it didn't help stop the trend of dropping steel and aluminum production within U.S. borders. Primary aluminum, in particular, has been decimated in the U.S. over the past two decades, with now only four smelters left producing roughly 680,000 metric tons of aluminum last year. By comparison, China produced 43 million tons, says ING, citing data from Harbor Intelligence. (kirk.maltais@wsj.com)

0927 ET - With President Trump confirming 25% tariffs on steel and aluminum imports, increased demand is now expected for these metals short-term--with buyers attempting to stockpile ahead of the tariff implementation, says HSBC Global Research in a note. "The increase in prices likely reflects some expectation of a front-loading of inventories ahead of the tariffs actually coming into effect," says the firm. "This essentially means higher near-term demand, as traders and firms look to secure supplies ahead of what is essentially an increase in costs." The metal tariffs from Trump's first term provides some clues on how they may impact markets, the firm says, speculating that with higher prices may come reduced demand and in turn reduced manufacturing employment. (kirk.maltais@wsj.com)

0917 ET - Consumers are still buying beverages, even if they have to pay more. Coca-Cola in 4Q notched a 9% increase in price/mix--a metric that includes prices as well as product mix, packaging and size. The majority of the increase came from higher prices, CFO John Murphy says on a call with analysts, "split somewhat evenly between normal pricing actions across our markets and intense inflationary pricing in a handful of markets experiencing currency devaluations." Favorable mix accounted for 1% of the 9% increase, he adds. Shares gain 4.2% in premarket trading after Coca-Cola posts higher-than-expected revenue and profit in the recent quarter. (connor.hart@wsj.com)

0916 ET - Crude futures are rising for a third consecutive session, supported by reports of lower Russian production and tensions between Israel and Hamas over their cease-fire agreement. The implications of trade tariffs remain an issue with the U.S. imposing 25% duties on all steel and aluminum imports. "The focus on reduced production rates in Russia, and a more optimistic tone in U.S. and other developed market indices helped crude break the downtrend," Pepperstone's Chris Weston says in a note. A mix of short covering and organic buying suggests crude had reached a near-term low, he adds. Benchmarks WTI rises 1.4% to $73.34 a barrel and Brent is up 1.5% at $77.01 a barrel. (anthony.harrup@wsj.com)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250211008159:0/)
