---
title: "BP is cheaper than its rivals. Now an activist investor has swooped in."
date: "2025-02-10 16:35:00"
summary: "By Steve GoldsteinBP shares soar after Elliott is reported to have taken a stakeBP shares surged in early trade on Monday after the activist investor Elliot was reported to have taken a significant stake in the integrated oil giant.BP shares (BP) (UK:B )shot up 8% in London trade. The U.K.-listed..."
categories:
  - "MarketWatch"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "MarketWatch"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Steve Goldstein

BP shares soar after Elliott is reported to have taken a stake

BP shares surged in early trade on Monday after the activist investor Elliot was reported to have taken a significant stake in the integrated oil giant.

BP shares (BP) (UK:B )shot up 8% in London trade. The U.K.-listed shares are down 5% over the last 52 weeks.

Neither the Wall Street Journal nor Bloomberg, both of which reported the investment, quantified the size of the stake.

BP did not comment. Elliott did not return a message.

BP trades at a lower price-to-earnings multiple than Exxon Mobil (XOM) or Chevron (CVX), and on an enterprise value to EBITDA basis is the cheapest of its peer group, according to FactSet data.

Elliott has previously led successful campaigns vs. Hess, Suncor and Marathon Petroleum.

BP is the only of the big oil companies to plan for oil production to decline, though it's already been under pressure to reduce its focus on renewables.

BP already has taken steps to reduce its focus on renewable energy, for example in December agreeing to form a 50-50 joint venture in wind with Jera.

Analysts at RBC said a more aggressive approach would be for BP to spin out units including its U.S. shale business, its lubricants business or its marketing and retail segment.

-Steve Goldstein

This content was created by MarketWatch, which is operated by Dow Jones & Co. MarketWatch is published independently from Dow Jones Newswires and The Wall Street Journal.

[MarketWatch](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_SN20250210002341:0/)
