---
title: "Global Equities Roundup: Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-13 16:46:00"
summary: "The latest Market Talks covering Equities. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.0846 GMT - Nestle's turnaround efforts will take time to pay off amid a challenging cost backdrop, Barclays analysts say in a research note. The Swiss maker of KitKat chocolate bars and Nescafe coffee is likely..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The latest Market Talks covering Equities. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.

0846 GMT - Nestle's turnaround efforts will take time to pay off amid a challenging cost backdrop, Barclays analysts say in a research note. The Swiss maker of KitKat chocolate bars and Nescafe coffee is likely to face questions on its profitability in light of cost inflation, the analysts say. The company expects underlying trading operating profit margin to be 16% or above this year. However, the key issue is how to square that target with rising cost inflation and advertising-and-promotional spending that is increasing slowly, according to Barclays. "Nestle is making early progress but the inflation and consumer backdrop remain challenging," the analysts say. (adria.calatayud@wsj.com)

0844 GMT - Unilever shares tumble at the open but results offer some bright spots, even though 4.0% underlying sales growth in the fourth quarter fell slightly short of expectations and the near-term outlook is muted. "Markets are subdued and 1Q 2025 will be softer, but Unilever's share is improving and (the company) reiterated margin growth for the year, albeit comps mean lower in 1H as we expected," Barclays analysts say in a note. Barclays also likes the buyback news, and notes that the consumer giant's productivity program is running ahead of schedule. Shares trade 6.5% lower at 44.41 pounds. (sarah.sloat@wsj.com)

0840 GMT - EssilorLuxottica posted better-than-expected sales for the fourth quarter, Jefferies analysts write in a note to clients. The Franco-Italian eyewear group behind reported 6.78 billion euros in sales, up 9.2% on year at constant currency. That is above Visible Alpha consensus of 6.5% growth, the analysts point out. Sales were lifted by a recovery in North America, where revenue grew 7.8% at constant currency to 3.15 billion euros. The company said its North American business had its best quarter of the year. EssilorLuxottica shares trade 2.4% higher at 282.70 euros. (mauro.orru@wsj.com)

0840 GMT - Hong Kong shares closed lower, reversing gains seen at the open. Property and auto stocks led the losses as positive sentiment boosted by Chinese AI startup DeepSeek and reported support for property developer Vanke wasn't sustained for long. China Hongqiao Group dropped 3.65% and Geely Automobile lost 3.1%. Li Auto fell 3.0%. Technology stocks remained resilient, with Kuaishou Technology up 6.3%. Baidu gained 5.7% after the company said it will make its AI chatbot free for use. Meituan rose 2.9% and Alibaba Group rose 2.6% after its chairman Joe Tsai confirmed a partnership with Apple on providing AI services to iPhones in China. The benchmark Hang Seng Index shed 0.2% to 21814.37 and the Hang Seng Tech Index fell 0.9%. (jiahui.huang@wsj.com; @ivy\_jiahuihuang)

0838 GMT - Nestle's full-year results look reassuring, but the company still faces credibility questions on its outlook, Jefferies analysts say in a note. Fourth-quarter performance of the Swiss maker of KitKat chocolate bars and Nescafe coffee was better than expected, Jefferies says. The company confirmed it expects 2025 organic sales growth to improve from last year's levels with an underlying trading operating profit margin of 16% of more. This is reassuring for those like Jefferies, who expected a roll-back on the company's 2025 profitability target and a flat dividend, the analysts say. Nevertheless, Nestle's commitment to 2025 organic sales growth is soft, with indications that volume growth will be lower than 1.4% with pricing making up for the shortfall, according to Jefferies. Shares jump 6.1%. (adria.calatayud@wsj.com)

0831 GMT - Siemens' solid set of first-quarter results are a promising start to the year, Deutsche Bank Research analysts Gael de-Bray and Nabil Najeeb say in a research note. The German conglomerate posted results that were strong on all metrics, particularly on free cash flow, the analysts say. Free cash flow was very strong at 1.6 billion euros, 40% above consensus estimates, they say. Siemens backed its fiscal year outlook, targeting organic revenue growth between 3% and 7%, against consensus of 5%, they say. Shares trade 5.7% higher at 224.45 euros. (nina.kienle@wsj.com)

0831 GMT - Thyssenkrupp posted decent enough first fiscal-quarter results, Barclays analysts say in a research note. Adjusted EBIT of 191 million euros was well ahead of company-compiled consensus of 144 million euros. In addition, the contribution of prepayments at the German industrial company's marine business was a big surprise, the analysts say. Given the history of the company to burn through cash, Thyssenkrupp guiding for positive cash flow will be well received and the quarterly results ought to highlight how important its marine systems business can be as a cash generator. Thyssenkrupp shares trade 10% higher to 5.0 euros. (pierre.bertrand@wsj.com)

0824 GMT - European defense stocks faced pressure in early-morning trade Thursday, following the call between U.S. President Trump and Russian President Vladimir Putin over a potential cease-fire in the Ukraine-Russia war. Germany's Rheinmetall, one of the biggest beneficiaries from the conflict, is down 2.1% at 713.20 euros, while the German sensor solutions provider Hensoldt falls 7.1% at 33.38 euros, and Renk Group losses 2.2% at 23.92 euros. In the U.K., BAE Systems is down 0.3% at 12.05 pounds, and Italy's Leonardo falls 2.2% at 29.26 euros. European foreign ministers issued a joint statement Wednesday saying that they want to put Ukraine in a position of strength, but without a budgetary announcement this is unlikely to prevent significant pressure on European defense stocks, Jefferies analysts Chloe Lemarie and Ben Brown say. (cristina.gallardo@wsj.com)

0822 GMT - DSM-Firmenich's 1 billion-euro buyback was a nice surprise, Barclays analysts write in a research note. In additiong, the nutrition, health and bioscience company's fourth-quarter adjusted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization beat analysts expectations by 1.8%, they add. The only niggle was the miss to organic sales growth expectations in its taste, texture and health division, the analysts write. Fears around the 2% miss may be reduced if the company explains on its analyst call that momentum within the division remains strong, they write. DSM's underlying Ebitda guidance for 2025 of at least 2.45 billion euros shows constructive underlying performance, the analysts add. Shares rise 4% to 105.10 euros. (adam.whittaker@wsj.com)

0818 GMT - Legrand's guidance for 2025 isn't very clear as it doesn't provide specific organic growth targets, Jefferies analysts say in a research note. The French electrical and digital building infrastructure manufacturer posted solid fourth-quarter revenue and adjusted profit results ahead of consensus estimates. North America was the standout, growing 12.9%, compared to consensus of 5.7%, the analysts say. Legrand guides for total revenue growth of 6% to 10%, including organic and scope--focused on growth related to acquisitions--. Consensus estimates see organic growth above 4% and scope above 3%, Jefferies says. Shares trade 8% higher at 104.9 euros. (nina.kienle@wsj.com)

0811 GMT - Nestle full-year results show the company is on its way back to growth, Vontobel's Jean-Philippe Bertschy says in a note. "Although the environment remains very challenging, we believe that the [2024] results mark a new beginning," the analyst says. The Swiss maker of KitKat chocolate bars and Nescafe coffee slightly exceeded expectations on all key metrics and its cost-savings plan shows it has fuel to fund growth, Bertschy says. New details on the cost-cutting program, with 300 million Swiss francs in savings already achieved and savings of 700 million francs expected by the end of 2025, should reassure investors, he notes. (adria.calatayud@wsj.com)

0811 GMT - Barclays posted a solid set of results but there is little new to get excited about, Citi says in a research note. "This, plus the strong run up in the share price over the past year, may temper any initial reaction, but the stock still appears inexpensive in our view," the analysts write. The British bank posted pretax profit ahead of consensus with a beat in revenue. Its new guidance for 2025 is broadly in line with consensus and 2026 targets were confirmed, they add. Other items, including the 1 billion pound share buyback, also met expectations. Shares fall more than 4% to 294 pence.(elena.vardon@wsj.com)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250213004264:0/)
