---
title: "News Highlights: Top Company News of the Day - Wednesday at 7 AM ET"
date: "2025-02-12 20:15:00"
summary: "Tesla Can't Afford Another Twitter-Size DistractionElon Musk's bid for OpenAI and his divisive political image raise new risks for Tesla's expensive stock.SoftBank Group Posts Quarterly Loss on Weak Tech Funds BusinessThe Japanese technology investment company reported a quarterly loss, partly due to the weakness in its technology funds business, as..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

**Tesla Can't Afford Another Twitter-Size Distraction**

Elon Musk's bid for OpenAI and his divisive political image raise new risks for Tesla's expensive stock.

**SoftBank Group Posts Quarterly Loss on Weak Tech Funds Business**

The Japanese technology investment company reported a quarterly loss, partly due to the weakness in its technology funds business, as it geared up to make more investments in artificial intelligence.

**Heineken Rallies After Brewer's Results Beat Expectations**

Heineken shares soared after the company posted earnings that beat market forecasts and its own guidance, boosted by sales of premium and nonalcoholic beer, and launched a share buyback of $1.55 billion.

**Lyft Sees Growth Slowdown in Gross Bookings**

Lyft posted a quarterly profit of $61.7 million compared with a loss of $26.3 million a year ago. Wall Street analysts had expected a loss of $3.4 million.

**Chinese Battery Giant CATL Files for Hong Kong Listing**

The world's largest maker of EV batteries has applied for a secondary listing in Hong Kong, joining the ranks of Chinese companies looking to tap the city's fundraising markets.

**Alibaba Shares Surge After Progress in Apple Partnership**

Alibaba's shares surged as the e-commerce giant made progress in its partnership with Apple to roll out artificial-intelligence features in China.

**Super Micro Computer Stock Climbs on Lofty 2026 Outlook**

Shares of Super Micro Computer jumped after the company set a sales outlook for fiscal 2026 that blows past current Wall Street forecasts, unwinding a selloff earlier in the day.

**DoorDash's stock rallies as demand forecast tops expectations**

Food-delivery app DoorDash Inc. on Tuesday forecast a key demand metric to come in above Wall Street's expectations for the first quarter, as it adds more grocery stores to its platform to complement its core restaurant business.

**IAC Hopes to Build Monetization of Dotdash Meredith, Grow Care.com, CFO Says**

The media and internet holding company is ready to move on from home-services company Angi, its chief financial officer said.

**Robinhood Stock Has Soared Along With Crypto. What to Expect From Its Earnings.**

The brokerage firm appears poised to benefit from a surge in investor activity and strong interest in cryptocurrencies.

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250212006518:0-news-highlights-top-company-news-of-the-day-wednesday-at-7-am-et/)
