---
title: "Global Equities Roundup: Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-10 16:43:00"
summary: "The latest Market Talks covering Equities. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.0842 GMT - DBS Group's strong dividend yield will support its share price, Carmen Lee of OCBC Investment Research writes in a note. The Singapore lender delivered another year of record profit, raised its ordinary dividend..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The latest Market Talks covering Equities. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.

0842 GMT - DBS Group's strong dividend yield will support its share price, Carmen Lee of OCBC Investment Research writes in a note. The Singapore lender delivered another year of record profit, raised its ordinary dividend and announced an additional capital return for 2025, Lee highlights. That reflects an attractive dividend yield of about 6.7%, higher than most Singapore dollar income-yielding assets, Lee says. Despite a more challenging external environment due to tariff threats and possible policy changes by major economies, Asia is likely to be more resilient than other regions, and DBS remains attractive, Lee says. She raises the fair value estimate on the bank to S$50.00 from S$43.60 while keeping a buy rating. Shares are 1.8% higher at S$45.50. (kimberley.kao@wsj.com)

0831 GMT - CAB Payments will likely make a strategic pivot this year following the departure of senior leadership members, Shore Capital's analyst Vivek Raja says. CFO and executive director Richard Hallett stepped down on Monday, following the departure of other senior management in the past year. Shore Capital maintains its buy recommendation on the stock, expecting the London-listed fintech to return to a meaningful growth trajectory, Raja says. Shares are down 1.3% at 0.62 pounds. (cristina.gallardo@wsj.com)

0827 GMT - Chinese automakers may take the lead in incorporating AI innovations and democratizing these technologies in mass-market cars, said Paul Gong, UBS head of China autos research. "After the DeepSeek surprise during the Chinese New Year, intelligence initiatives could remain a key theme among auto stocks," he says. Traditional carmakers will likely announce more collaborations with AI companies in the coming months ride the momentum, he adds. Gong believes that the technological edge in the auto sector will likely shift from electrification to intelligence with rising awareness and adoption of AI. He notes that smart cockpits powered by AI algorithms could provide a sustainable competitive edge, helping automakers gain market share. Meanwhile, AI could gradually lead to higher manufacturing productivity, boosting carmakers' margins in the long term, he adds. (sherry.qin@wsj.com)

0824 GMT - Hong Kong shares closed higher, supported by tech stocks. Investors are digesting Trump's plan to impose additional tariffs on all imports of steel and aluminum. Alibaba Health led the day's gains, adding 9.2%, while Meituan rose 5.6%. Alibaba Group and Baidu were 5.5% and 3.7% higher, respectively. Dongfeng Motor surged 26% on news of a potential restructuring with another state-owned enterprise. Among the top decliners, Zhongsheng Group fell 1.45% and Li Ning was 1.2% lower. The benchmark Hang Seng Index closed 1.8% higher at 21521.98 and the Hang Seng Tech Index rose 2.65%.(jiahui.huang@wsj.com; @ivy\_jiahuihuang)

0815 GMT - Meiji Yasuda's $2.3 billion deal with Legal & General looks set to boost the Japanese insurer's profits and premiums, CreditSights analysts say. Acquiring L&G's U.S. protection business and 20% of its pension risk transfer business will double Meiji Yasuda's overseas insurance premiums to more than Y1 trillion, with core profits set to top Y100 billion versus Y91.4 billion predeal, Trung Tran and Larissa Knepper say in a report. The deal is in line with the company's plan to expand market share and enhance asset management, boosting overseas operations and profit stability, they add. "We continue to view Meiji Yasuda as an excellent credit with a strong market presence in Japan, good geographical diversification and high solvency underpinned by a clear capital management strategy," they say, keeping an outperform recommendation on the insurer. (fabiana.negrinochoa@wsj.com)

0812 GMT - DeepSeek's success could boost demand for Nvidia's products despite the chip maker's stock being among the hardest hit initially, Tiger Brokers market strategist James Ooi writes in a note. DeepSeek is viewed as AI's Sputnik moment, as the Chinese AI startup appears to have shaken U.S. AI dominance by achieving comparable performance at a fraction of the costs incurred by its American counterparts, he says. AI software stocks should benefit from DeepSeek's success as lower computing costs would open up new opportunities, Ooi says. It could also create higher demand for Nvidia's GPUs despite initial fears that lower-cost AI models may reduce the need for high-end chips, he adds. (jiahui.huang@wsj.com; @ivy\_jiahuihuang)

0758 GMT - Parkway Life REIT is likely on a solid growth trajectory, DBS Group Research analysts say in a research report, as they maintain its buy rating on the REIT. The full earnings impact of the REIT's recent acquisition of a portfolio of French nursing homes is expected to emerge this year, the analysts say. Also, the rental upside for the REIT's Singapore hospitals should kick in from 2026, thanks to their master-lease renewal. Moreover, there's potential further upside to its Mount Elizabeth Orchard hospital's revenues post-asset enhancement initiative in 2026. However, DBS trims the unit's target price to S$4.75 from S$4.80 to reflect some adjusted assumptions. Units are 1.0% lower at S$3.94. (ronnie.harui@wsj.com)

0734 GMT - The FTSE 100 is expected to open seven points higher, or 0.1%, according to IG. The index closed 26 points lower, or 0.3%, to 8700 points Friday. President Trump on Sunday said he would impose 25% tariffs on all steel and aluminium imports from Monday. Risky assets are becoming desensitized to Trump's tariff announcements, Jefferies economist Mohit Kumar says in a note. "Our view in tariffs remain that they will cause volatility, are a negotiating tool and will eventually be not as bad as feared." Elsewhere, this week's focus is on U.S. inflation data Wednesday, a testimony from Federal Reserve Chair Jerome Powell on Tuesday and Wednesday and U.K. economic growth data on Thursday. (renae.dyer@wsj.com)

0728 GMT - Nordic markets are seen opening slightly higher, with IG calling the OMXS30 up 0.3% at around 2648. Last week ended with stock market declines in the U.S., while developments in Asia this morning are mixed, SEB analysts note. "New threats of tariffs are high on this week's agenda and will be digested by the markets," they write. According to various statements from President Trump over the weekend, steel and aluminum will be subject to 25% tariffs, and he plans to make an announcement about reciprocal tariffs later this week, SEB says. In addition, tariffs announced by China in response to previously increased U.S. tariffs, have now come into effect. Futures are pointing slightly higher in both Europe and the U.S. ahead of today's trading. OMXS30 closed at 2639.75, OMXN40 at 2609.19 and OBX at 1401.09. (dominic.chopping@wsj.com)

0719 GMT - Chinese shares ended higher, supported by software and telecom stocks. China's three largest telecom providers surged after they incorporated DeepSeek's model in their offerings. China Telecom put up 6.6% and China Unicom was 4.4% higher. Among software stocks, Beijing Kingsoft Office Software was up 1.0% and iFlytek advanced 1.4%. Dongfeng Automobile jumped 10%, the daily maximum gain permitted in the mainland, after it unveiled plans to merge with another state-owned carmaker, Chongqing Changan. The benchmark Shanghai Composite Index ended 0.6% higher at 3322.17, the Shenzhen Composite Index gained 1.1% and the ChiNext Price Index was 0.4% higher.(sherry.qin@wsj.com)

0704 GMT - Hong Kong is expected to continue benefiting from China's likely significant outbound portfolio investments this year, driven by tariff threats, the yuan's carry disadvantage and Beijing's policy support, according to BNP Paribas analysts. China's outbound portfolio investments hit a record high in 2024, helping Hong Kong's financial markets navigate another year of higher-for-longer USD rates, they write in a note. The Hong Kong Monetary Authority and the People's Bank of China announced six measures to expand cross-border flows in January, which included launching a yuan trade financing liquidity facility. Beijing may also accelerate the allocation of official reserves to Hong Kong, they say. These moves indicate that authorities are further opening up China's borders and will benefit Hong Kong, BNP Paribas says. (jiahui.huang@wsj.com; @ivy\_jiahuihuang)

0702 GMT - DBS Group's total shareholder return for 2025 remains unclear, Morningstar senior equity analyst Michael Makdad says in a note. The capital return dividend DBS announced for the current year means the bank will pay more in dividends than previously forecasted, Makdad notes. However, the timeline for when DBS's planned share buyback will be completed is still uncertain, making it difficult to determine if the total shareholder return will exceed forecasts, he says. Still, 4Q earnings were as strong as expected, and DBS has guided for net interest income to grow in 2025, even after assuming two U.S. Fed rate cuts, Makdad adds. Loan demand and fee income growth were also strong in 4Q, he adds. (kimberley.kao@wsj.com)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250210001951:0/)
