---
title: "Basic Materials Roundup: Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-11 05:50:00"
summary: "The latest Market Talks covering Basic Materials. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires at 4:20 ET, 12:20 ET and 16:50 ET.1649 ET - A 25% U.S. tariff on Canadian aluminum \"will be so destructive for industrial aluminum value chain in the U.S. that it cannot last,\" says Jean Simard, CEO..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The latest Market Talks covering Basic Materials. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires at 4:20 ET, 12:20 ET and 16:50 ET.

1649 ET - A 25% U.S. tariff on Canadian aluminum "will be so destructive for industrial aluminum value chain in the U.S. that it cannot last," says Jean Simard, CEO of the Aluminium Association of Canada. Simard tells WSJ he's hoping the Trump administration will carve out Canadian-made aluminum from the president's decision to impose a 25% tariff on imported steel and aluminum. Simard says small- and mid-sized U.S. manufacturers will be stuck paying vastly more for the metal which is used to build cars, aerospace products, and consumer appliances. "At some point in time, some products will be priced out of the market and replaced by foreign imports," Simard predicts. Canada supplies about 60% of the aluminum the U.S. imports. (paul.vieira@wsj.com; @paulvieira)

1256 ET - Canada is the biggest foreign supplier of steel and aluminum to the US market. However, the fallout from 25% US tariffs on those two commodities, as President Trump has promised, would be minimal for the Canadian economy, Capital Economics says. "The impact on GDP should be limited," the firm says, noting Canadian steel and aluminum exports to US account for just 1% of GDP. CapEcon says it doesn't believe Ottawa will do much in terms of retaliation, although noting that public-opinion polls show widespread support for taking a tough approach against the Trump administration. Given that US exports accounts for one-fifth of Canada GDP, "any serious [retaliation] measures would be Canada cutting off its nose to spite its face." (Paul.Vieira@wsj.com, @paulvieira)

1253 ET - The U.S. manufacturing and auto industries are preparing for new 25% tariffs on aluminum and steel imports announced by President Trump. The move will likely have a particularly large effect on imports from Canada and Mexico, says ING Economics in a note. The firm says U.S. manufacturers import over half of the aluminum they need, with Canada the source of roughly 60%. Canada and Mexico account for about 90% of aluminum scrap imports, according to ING. Meanwhile, 23% of steel imports come from Canada, 16% from Brazil, 12% from Mexico and 10% from South Korea. (kirk.maltais@wsj.com)

1049 ET - Corporate bonds issued by companies within U.S. tech, auto and basic materials sectors have a higher exposure to foreign revenue and are more vulnerable to tariffs implemented by President Trump, BNP Paribas credit strategists say in a note. Issuers within services sectors, however, such as healthcare and cruise companies, have lower foreign sales and are better placed to avoid the negative impacts of tariffs, the strategists say. (miriam.mukuru@wsj.com)

0929 ET — Russel Metals may skirt the worst of the steel tariffs thanks to its larger U.S. exposure. TD Cowen's Michael Tupholme says the 25% tariffs on U.S. steel/aluminum imports from all countries will be a challenge for the metals space, but Russel Metals may get off easier than others, similar to the trends saw in the 2018 tariffs on the sector. "We see the news as positive for steel-related equities with U.S. market exposure, including Russel, which generates 40% of its revenue in the U.S.," the analyst notes. (adriano.marchese@wsj.com)

0928 ET - The dollar weakens against most major currencies while dollar indexes rise, as markets react to a new set of tariffs announced by President Trump over the weekend. Both the ICE's DXY gauge and the broader WSJ Dollar Index rise around 0.1%, while the greenback weakens 0.2% against the euro and strengthens 0.3% versus the yen. The 25% levy on all steel and aluminum imports to the U.S. looks less likely to be avoided the way previous country-targeting tariffs were. Goldman Sachs' Stuart Jenkins writes that "we think they would have a more durable Dollar impact that the market is not yet fully pricing." (paulo.trevisani@wsj.com; @ptrevisani)

0849 ET - Canada stands to bear the brunt of the pain from President Trump's 25% tariff on steel and aluminum tariffs. Canada is the top exporter to the U.S. of steel, accounting for about 25% of steel imports, via the International Trade Administration. Mexico is No. 2 at about 15%. Canada is by far the biggest seller to the US of aluminum, accounting for 60% of imports. Canada won a reprieve last week on 25% tariffs on all its nonenergy US-bound exports, which Trump says he will revisit early next month to ensure Ottawa is living up to its commitment to fortify border security and deter fentanyl trafficking. (Paul.Vieira@wsj.com, @paulvieira)

0758 ET - ArcelorMittal says urgent support is needed to bolster the competitiveness and sustainability of European steelmaking, just as the U.S. is expected to put 25% tariffs on steel and aluminium imports. The Luxembourg-based steelmaker said it supports trade measures designed to protect the steel sector from unfair trade practices and address the glut in market. It says the steel industry is contending with significant excess global capacity with the market in Europe facing subdued demand and record-high imports. Foreign steel imports to Europe hold a 27% market share, ArcelorMittal says. Shares trade down 2.2% at 26.77 euros. (pierre.bertrand@wsj.com)

0700 ET - Norsk Hydro has more than 20 sites in the U.S., as well as plants in Mexico and Canada that could be affected by U.S. tariffs on steel and aluminum imports, a spokesman for the company said. Though the company allocates most of its annual Norwegian aluminum production to the European market, it has close to 6,000 employees in the U.S. The aluminum and renewable-energy company says it is preparing for different scenarios but that it is still too early to say how tariffs would affect its operations in the long term. President Trump announced plans to introduce 25% tariffs on imports of steel and aluminum on every nation exporting the metals to the U.S. Norsk Hydro shares trade 0.2% lower at 67.68 Norwegian kroner. (pierre.bertrand@wsj.com)

0615 ET - Shares of U.S. steelmakers rise premarket after President Trump said he plans to impose 25% tariffs Monday on steel and aluminum imports. U.S. Steel shares are up 8.3% in premarket trading after closing last week at $36.93. Nucor shares are also up 8.5%, while Steel Dynamics shares are 5.7% higher. Nucor shares closed last week at $130.26 while Steel Dynamics closed at $126.71. President Trump announced plans to introduce 25% tariffs on imports of steel and aluminum, with the levies applying to every nation exporting the metals to the U.S. (pierre.bertrand@wsj.com)

0451 ET - Johnson Matthey's Chairman Patrick Thomas not seeking reelection, and the naming of Richard Pike as CFO designate could be seen as greater willingness, or urgency, to improve the company's financial metrics, Jefferies analysts say. These moves could also provide share price support, they say in a note. The move by the chemicals company comes after a period of enhanced pressure from Standard Investments, its largest shareholder, which has called for greater focus on cash generation and shareholder returns, Jefferies says. Shares are up 1% at 1,436 pence, and are up 7.2% in the year to date.(anthony.orunagoriainoff@dowjones.com)

0148 ET - Japan's Nikkei Stock Average closed flat at 38801.17, as gains in chemical and select electronics stocks helped offset losses in trading houses. Murata Manufacturing rose 5.0%, while Mitsui & Co. dropped 1.8%. Mitsubishi Chemical Group gained 2.0% after announcing its plan to sell its drug unit for $3.37 billion. The broader market index, Topix, fell 0.2% to 2733.01. Investors were focused on President Trump's tariff plans as well as domestic earnings. The 10-year Japanese government bond yield rose 1.5 basis points to 1.315%. USD/JPY is at 151.81, compared with 151.41 late Friday in New York. (kosaku.narioka@wsj.com; @kosakunarioka)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250210011307:0/)
