---
title: "Boaz Weinstein Picks New Fight With U.K. Funds — WSJ"
date: "2025-02-11 02:45:00"
summary: "By Caitlin McCabeBoaz Weinstein hasn't given up on rattling cages in the U.K. just yet.The activist hedge-fund manager, who heads up New York-based Saba Capital, on Monday launched a fresh campaign against four British funds.He said they are badly undervalued because they are run as investment trusts, a kind of..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Caitlin McCabe

Boaz Weinstein hasn't given up on rattling cages in the U.K. just yet.

The activist hedge-fund manager, who heads up New York-based Saba Capital, on Monday launched a fresh campaign against four British funds.

He said they are badly undervalued because they are run as investment trusts, a kind of closed-ended fund. Such funds can trade at a big discount to the net asset value of their holdings because they have a set number of shares. Weinstein has waged similar campaigns in the U.S.

The new move continues a battle that began in December, when Weinstein took stakes in seven U.K. investment trusts, and asked shareholders to replace the boards with his nominees. So far, shareholders at six of the seven have voted against him.

"When we talk about some of these investment trusts, what do we need them for? We don't need them," he told a London conference.

"They've been talked about as this thing that needs to be protected. There's an infinite, myriad number of alternatives that are lower cost and perform better."

Weinstein called the new effort the "second stage" of his campaign. He is focusing on two of the same trusts, and two new ones.

He plans to call stockholder votes on converting the trusts into open-ended funds, which don't have a set number of shares and don't suffer discounts to asset value. While the structure would change, the fund strategy and manager would stay the same.

The funds being targeted again are CQS Natural Resources & Growth Income PLC and European Smaller Companies Trust PLC. The new targets are Middlefield Canadian Income PCC and Schroder UK Mid Cap Fund PLC.

In a letter, Weinstein acknowledged shareholders hadn't been willing to replace trusts' boards. But, he said, "many investors agree with Saba on one crucial point: the importance of the option for liquidity at NAV."

This item is part of a Wall Street Journal live coverage event. The full stream can be found by searching P/WSJL (WSJ Live Coverage).

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250210008590:0/)
