---
title: "SoftBank Posts Quarterly Loss, Gears Up for Giant AI Project — 2nd Update"
date: "2025-02-12 20:23:00"
summary: "By Kosaku NariokaSoftBank Group reported a quarterly loss, partly due to the weakness in its technology funds business, as it geared up for a giant artificial-intelligence infrastructure project with ChatGPT maker OpenAI and other partners.The Japanese technology investment company said Wednesday that it booked a net loss for the three..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Kosaku Narioka

SoftBank Group reported a quarterly loss, partly due to the weakness in its technology funds business, as it geared up for a giant artificial-intelligence infrastructure project with ChatGPT maker OpenAI and other partners.

The Japanese technology investment company said Wednesday that it booked a net loss for the three months ended December, swinging from a net profit a year earlier and missing analysts' estimates.

In January, SoftBank Group and OpenAI announced a plan to invest up to half a trillion dollars in AI infrastructure in the U.S., together with other partners such as Oracle and Abu Dhabi-based MGX.

The companies said they were committing $100 billion to the venture and aiming to spend up to $500 billion over the next four years. The joint venture, called Stargate, will build data centers for OpenAI.

SoftBank Group said Wednesday that Stargate will be funded primarily through project finance and that equity investment will be limited. Much of the funding for each data-center project would come from lenders and debt investors such as banks, insurers, pension funds and investment funds.

Chief Financial Officer Yoshimitsu Goto said the company will be able to maintain its fiscal discipline while making investments for Stargate. If debt financing becomes difficult, the company should slow the pace of investments, Goto said.

He said the company has a long history of using project finance and is well versed in that. "We hope Elon-san will find that out," he said.

Billionaire Elon Musk publicly questioned whether the joint venture would have enough capital to follow through on their pledges shortly after the Stargate project's announcement in January.

SoftBank Group wants to earnestly undertake investments in AI, which "has just begun," Goto said.

A few months ago, SoftBank Group Chief Executive Masayoshi Son predicted that artificial general intelligence, or AGI, in which computers have human-level cognitive abilities, would be achieved within two to three years. "I now realize that AGI would come much earlier," he said last week.

SoftBank itself has invested $2.0 billion in OpenAI through its Vision Fund 2, after the Japanese company bought $1.5 billion of existing shares in January.

The company's cash position stood at 5.0 trillion yen, equivalent to $32.79 billion, as of the end of 2024.

SoftBank Group said it revised margin-loan terms using shares of subsidiary Arm Holdings in December, raising the borrowing limit to $13.5 billion from $8.5 billion. The increased borrowing capacity of $5.0 billion was untouched as of December.

SoftBank's earnings are susceptible to fluctuations in technology stocks. The recent emergence of Chinese AI startup DeepSeek raised concerns about demand for advanced chips and data centers, triggering a selloff in AI-related stocks late last month. Shares in SoftBank were also caught in the market rout, slumping more than 13% over two days.

Goto said the entrance of new service providers such as DeepSeek is good for the AI industry.

SoftBank Group and OpenAI said last week that they plan to team up to offer AI services, initially targeting Japanese businesses to lay the groundwork for potential expansion worldwide.

For its third quarter, SoftBank Group booked a net loss of 369.165 billion yen, equivalent to $2.42 billion, compared with a net profit of Y950.00 billion in the year-earlier period. That missed the estimated net profit of Y322.2 billion in a poll of analysts by data provider Visible Alpha.

Its Vision Funds business posted a loss of Y309.93 billion, compared with a profit of Y422.74 billion in the year-earlier period, as the value of e-commerce company Coupang, Indian electric-scooter maker Ola and some other startups declined.

Even so, continued hopes for growing AI-related demand at the company's investees, including Arm, have boosted SoftBank Group's stock in recent months, with its shares rising 3.8% on Wednesday ahead of the results. Last week, Arm reported record quarterly sales for the three months ended Dec. 31, buoyed by a rush of AI chip buying.

Write to Kosaku Narioka at kosaku.narioka@wsj.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250212006708:0-softbank-posts-quarterly-loss-gears-up-for-giant-ai-project-2nd-update/)
