---
title: "News Highlights: Top Global Markets News of the Day - Wednesday at 1 PM ET"
date: "2025-02-13 02:15:00"
summary: "Inflation Heated Up in January, Freezing the FedConsumer prices rose 3%, extending a recent pattern of increases at the start of the year that likely derails the prospect for Federal Reserve rate cuts anytime soon.OPEC Sticks to Oil-Demand View, Flags U.S. Trade Policy RisksThe cartel stuck to its oil-demand forecast..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

**Inflation Heated Up in January, Freezing the Fed**

Consumer prices rose 3%, extending a recent pattern of increases at the start of the year that likely derails the prospect for Federal Reserve rate cuts anytime soon.

**OPEC Sticks to Oil-Demand View, Flags U.S. Trade Policy Risks**

The cartel stuck to its oil-demand forecast after reaffirming plans to gradually hike output from April, but said Trump's trade policy was injecting a dose of uncertainty into markets.

**BOE's Greene Says Key Rate Must Remain Restrictive to Tame Inflation**

Supply constraints rather than soft demand caused recent weakness in the U.K. economy, suggesting to BOE member Megan Greene that borrowing costs will have to stay restrictive to tame inflation.

**Trump Calls India a Tariff King, a Title Modi Wants to Shed**

With tariffs on imports averaging 14%, India is especially vulnerable to the reciprocal levies Trump says he will impose on some countries.

**Dow, S&P 500 Fall After Inflation Hits 3%**

S&P 500, Nasdaq-100 and Dow industrials declined after investors were rattled by the first inflation reading of 2025.

**U.S. Crude Oil Stockpiles Rise For Third Straight Week**

U.S. crude oil inventories increased for a third consecutive week while gasoline stocks declined for the first time in three months, according to data released by the U.S. Energy Information Administration.

**Why Tariffs Will Make Car Insurance Even More Expensive**

Costlier cars or auto parts can increase claims costs, which take time to filter through to car-insurance rates.

**House Republicans Release $4.5 Trillion Tax-Cut Framework After Tense Talks**

The Senate is moving ahead with its own narrower plan focusing on border security.

**European Defense Startups Drive $5.2 Billion Funding Spree in 2024**

European defense startups were the main growth driver behind a record $5.2 billion in venture capital funding spent on tech companies such as AI software developer Helsing and drone maker Tekever, according to a report.

**Trump Advisers Eye Bank Regulator Consolidation After Targeting CFPB**

Pathways under discussion would attempt to merge the FDIC, OCC without input from Congress.

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250212011159:0-news-highlights-top-global-markets-news-of-the-day-wednesday-at-1-pm-et/)
