---
title: "Schwab is buying back a chunk of its stock as TD sells its 10% stake"
date: "2025-02-10 22:48:00"
summary: "By Steve GelsiTD Bank to divest 184.7 million shares or 10.1% of Schwab's stock to exit its full investmentCharles Schwab Corp.'s stock lost ground on Monday after it said TD Bank is selling its 10.1% stake in the online broker, as investors reacted to the prospect of a greater number..."
categories:
  - "MarketWatch"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "MarketWatch"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Steve Gelsi

TD Bank to divest 184.7 million shares or 10.1% of Schwab's stock to exit its full investment

Charles Schwab Corp.'s stock lost ground on Monday after it said TD Bank is selling its 10.1% stake in the online broker, as investors reacted to the prospect of a greater number of shares of its company in the stock market.

TD Bank (TD) will divest its holding of 184.7 million shares of Schwab (SCHW) through a secondary offering.

Schwab, in turn, has agreed to buy $1.5 billion of its own stock from TD Bank in the offering.

Schwab's stock fell 3% in early trading.

Even after buying the $1.5 billion in stock, Schwab will still have $7.2 billion remaining under its existing stock-buyback program.

TD Bank said it decided to sell the stock as part of a strategic review, about five years after it received the shares of the online brokerage firm as part of the deal for TD Ameritrade, which merged with Schwab.

"We are very pleased with the strong return we are generating on the Schwab shares we acquired," TD Bank said.

TD Bank plans to use the roughly C$8 billion ($5.6 billion) in proceeds of the Schwab stock offering to buy back its own stock.

In August, TD Bank sold 40.5 million shares of Schwab's stock. The money helped it pay a $3 billion fine for alleged violations of U.S. anti-money-laundering rules.

The sale brought TD Bank's stake in Schwab down to 10.1% from 12.3%.

TD Bank's stock rose 2.2%.

-Steve Gelsi

This content was created by MarketWatch, which is operated by Dow Jones & Co. MarketWatch is published independently from Dow Jones Newswires and The Wall Street Journal.

[MarketWatch](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_SN20250210007215:0/)
