---
title: "News Highlights: Top Global Markets News of the Day - Thursday at 9 AM ET"
date: "2025-02-13 22:15:00"
summary: "Wholesale Inflation Sped Up in January With 0.4% Monthly Gain in PPIThe consensus estimate was for a 0.2% rise in the producer price index.U.K. Ends Year With Weak Growth as Tariffs Threaten New BlowThe economy grew just 0.1% between October and December from the previous three-month period as the country..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

**Wholesale Inflation Sped Up in January With 0.4% Monthly Gain in PPI**

The consensus estimate was for a 0.2% rise in the producer price index.

**U.K. Ends Year With Weak Growth as Tariffs Threaten New Blow**

The economy grew just 0.1% between October and December from the previous three-month period as the country braces for higher U.S. tariffs.

**Eurozone Industry Ends Bright Streak With Drop in Output**

Industrial production fell 1.1% compared with the month before, quashing signs of recovery seen earlier in the quarter.

**Stock Futures Mixed After PPI Data**

U.S. stock futures were mixed after producer price index data came in higher than expected.

**As Buyers Fail to Show Up, More Homes Are Being Pulled From Sale**

An increase in the number of properties being delisted could be an early sign of a weakening housing market.

**IEA Slightly Lifts Oil Demand Outlook, Says Supply Surplus Narrowing**

The International Energy Agency modestly raised its forecast for global oil-demand growth and said improved compliance with output quotas among members of the OPEC+ alliance is reducing a projected supply surplus in the market.

**Inflation Helped Trump Get Elected. Now It's His Problem.**

The president's team blames his predecessor for stubborn inflation, but Trump's own agenda could make it harder to defeat.

**U.K. Competition Watchdog Targets Faster M&A Reviews**

The regulator plans to speed up its decision-making on large deals amid concern its probes could be having a chilling effect on investment.

**Brookfield Credit Chief Bullish on Future Growth of Asset-Based Lending**

The firm said it expects to double its roughly $317 billion in total credit assets within five years.

**Why Dealers Are Flying Gold Bars by Plane From London to New York**

Tariff fears have roiled gold markets, pushing JPMorgan and others to stash bullion on passenger planes to sell at record prices.

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250213010258:0-news-highlights-top-global-markets-news-of-the-day-thursday-at-9-am-et/)
