---
title: "Global Equities Roundup: Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-13 02:37:00"
summary: "The latest Market Talks covering Equities. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.1337 ET - The Super Bowl seemed to be a good day for online sports betting companies, with Flutter Entertainment's Fanduel reporting a 19% increase in bets to 16.6 million, and BetMGM calling it \"one of..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The latest Market Talks covering Equities. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.

1337 ET - The Super Bowl seemed to be a good day for online sports betting companies, with Flutter Entertainment's Fanduel reporting a 19% increase in bets to 16.6 million, and BetMGM calling it "one of the best single game results in company history," BofA Securities analysts say in a research note. The ability to grow double-digits during the biggest event of the year could help ease concerns of slowing handle, or the amount of money wagered by bettors, the analysts say. DraftKings led active user share on Sunday at 23%, followed by FanDuel at 17%, while Bet365, PrizePicks and ESPN Bet each had 10% share, BofA says. Still, the analysts don't expect DraftKings to raise guidance, as it might face $100 million of annualized headwinds from higher taxes in Maryland and Ohio, together with launch costs in Missouri. (sabela.ojea@wsj.com; @sabelaojeaguix)

1325 ET - High mortgage rates, rising to 7.04% in January compared with mid-6% last year, are impacting buyers more than sellers, Zillow says. Home values, up 44% since pre-pandemic and 2.6% year-over- year, make affordability tough, with pending sales down 3.6%. Buyers face challenges, but many listings see price cuts. Sellers, less affected by rates, are listing more, with new listings up 12% year over year, driven by equity gains and life events like job changes or family growth. Western markets like Portland, Seattle, Denver, and San Francisco are seeing the fastest listing growth. Despite buyer struggles, 25% of homes sold in December exceeded asking price, up from 19% pre-pandemic, showing some sellers still benefit in this market. (chris.wack@wsj.com)

1319 ET - UBS says Lyft's worse-than-expected 4Q gross bookings and margin trajectory reinforces its below-consensus adjusted Ebitda forecasts for 2025 to 2027. The analysts also say in a research note that the upcoming loss of the Delta Air Lines partnership, that linked Delta SkyMiles and Lyft accounts, will likely be a headwind that makes their medium-term forecasts uncertain. Add to that the threat of robotaxis and the analysts say they have limited visibility into near-term trading multiple expansion. "We think Lyft's competing initiative will remain nascent through 2026," the analysts say. UBS cuts its target price to $15 from $16. Lyft falls 4% to $13.82. (sabela.ojea@wsj.com; @sabelaojeaguix)

1252 ET - Coca-Cola imports aluminium from Canada for its U.S. soda cans, though higher prices for the metal could scramble this operation, CEO James Quincey says on a call with analysts. The soda company wants to limit price hikes for consumers in order to preserve demand, which could lead to the company considering new bottling materials: "So for example, if aluminum cans become more expensive, we can put more emphasis on PET bottles," he says. This adaptability should ensure tariffs don't drag volumes lower in 2025. "I think we control enough variables that we can adapt and mitigate our way through what is happening, because it's a combination of hedging, which we use on the key materials," Quincey says. (connor.hart@wsj.com)

1251 ET - Home listings are selling for less than asking price and taking longer to sell, according to Redfin. In January, the typical U.S. home was selling for 1.8% below asking, the largest discount in nearly two years, and taking 56 days to go under contract, the longest in almost five years. About 56% of listings remain on the market for at least 60 days, similar to last year but down from 61% last month, the highest in five years. High home prices--up 4% year over year--and elevated mortgage rates have pushed buyer payments near record highs, slowing the market. Political and economic uncertainty are also deterring buyers. But this slow market gives buyers more room to negotiate on price and terms, offering some relief amid high costs and low inventory. (chris.wack@wsj.com)

1206 ET - Base metal prices are mixed, with LME three-month copper up 1.1% at $9,459 a metric ton and LME three-month aluminum down 0.6% at $2,623.50 a ton. President Trump's planned 25% tariffs on all steel and aluminum products have already widened the Midwest premium U.S. buyers have to pay over LME prices. The latest LME commitment of traders report shows investors increased their net bullish position in copper by 5,224 lots for a sixth consecutive week to 73,763 lots for the week ended Feb. 7--the highest net long position since the beginning of November, ING analysts say in a note. In aluminum, speculators raised net bullish bets by 2,109 lots to 119,588 lots over the last reporting week. This was the highest bullish bet since mid-November, ING adds. (joseph.hoppe@wsj.com)

1158 ET - Canada Prime Minister Justin Trudeau says he had a short encounter with Vice President JD Vance about the negative fallout from a 25% tariff on steel and aluminum from Ohio. Trudeau tells reporters he told Vance — for an AI conference in Paris that the two lawmakers attended — that about C$2.2 billion of Canadian-made steel and aluminum are used by manufacturers in Vance's home state. "He nodded and noted it," Trudeau says, noting it was a short exchange. Earlier in the day, Quebec Premier Francois Legault mused that perhaps Canada should slap an export tax on U.S.-bound aluminum should the Trump administration imposes a hefty tariff on the metal. Canadian officials play down talk of export taxes, saying they want to press U.S. officials for a carve out. (paul.vieira@wsj.com, @paulvieira)

1150 ET - Apple could be getting a much-needed sales boost in China. The tech company partnered with Alibaba to co-develop Chinese AI features that have been submitted to China's cyberspace regulator for approval, Bank of America analyst Wamsi Mohan says in a research note, citing a report from The Information. iPhone sales have been pressured in China, falling for six consecutive quarters. CEO Tim Cook noted last month that iPhone sales are stronger in regions where AI tools are available. "We believe Apple can regain share in the Chinese market if they are able to launch Apple Intelligence successfully to compete with Huawei/Xiaomi's currently available AI offerings," Mohan writes. Alibaba ADRs rise 4.7%, on track for a two-year high. Apple shares rise 1%. (connor.hart@wsj.com)

1138 ET - The pressure that a pricing war is having on Lyft's gross bookings is a symptom of the company's smaller marketplace compared to Uber Technologies, DA Davidson analysts say in a research note. While Lyft deserves credit for some product innovations such as the price lock, it is unclear whether any rideshare product innovations can yield long-term sustainable competitive advantages against a larger scaled competitor, the analysts add. Lyft shares drop 5%, while Uber shares rise 1.6%. (sabela.ojea@wsj.com; @sabelaojeaguix)

1129 ET - Restaurant Brands International's comparable sales are slowing, but they are still ahead of the quick service restaurant industry thanks to its performance in France. TD Cowen's Andrew Charles says in a report that the company's international segment saw comparable sales growth of 4.7% which "continues the 4Q industry trend of outperformance, exceeding our 3% estimate & 2.8% consensus." Charles says RBI's international business is dominated by BK France, but not all is rosy. RBI cited bad debt expense incurred from the BK China business which continues to be a drag. (adriano.marchese@wsj.com)

1059 ET - Super Micro Computer is guiding for a big 60% jump in FY26 revenue that has JPMorgan analysts raising their own estimates, albeit not as high as the company's management. They say in a research note that it is too early to underwrite the upbeat view given limited visibility around the easing of supply chain constraints for next-generation chips. The upcoming AI server product cycle is also more competitive now, as Super Micro's peers have stronger portfolios and are looking to have bigger roles in the industry, the analysts say. Many of those peers have also mentioned near-term margin concerns for AI server offerings, undermining Super Micro's confidence that margins could improve for next-gen AI servers, they say. (dean.seal@wsj.com)

1058 ET - Quebec Premier Francois Legault suggests that Canada might want to slap an export tax on aluminum should President Trump follow through on imposing a 25% tariff on all imported steel and aluminum. Canada is by far the biggest seller of foreign aluminum to the U.S., and the bulk of Canadian aluminum is in the province of Quebec. The U.S. "really needs us" on aluminum, says Legault, who is in Washington with other Canadian premiers to persuade lawmakers and officials about the potential fallout on tariffs on Canadian imports. An export tax on products like aluminum might get Trump's attention, he says. "We have to be careful," Legault adds, "[because] we want to have a deal with no tariffs." (paul.vieira@wsj.com; @paulvieira)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250212011274:0/)
