---
title: "Tech, Media & Telecom Roundup: Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-14 01:20:00"
summary: "The latest Market Talks covering Technology, Media and Telecom. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires at 4:20 ET, 12:20 ET and 16:50 ET.1211 ET - AppLovin's fourth-quarter advertising revenue came in well above the expectations of the vast majority of investors polled by BofA Securities analysts. The mobile-advertising-technology company's AI-engine..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The latest Market Talks covering Technology, Media and Telecom. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires at 4:20 ET, 12:20 ET and 16:50 ET.

1211 ET - AppLovin's fourth-quarter advertising revenue came in well above the expectations of the vast majority of investors polled by BofA Securities analysts. The mobile-advertising-technology company's AI-engine push has shown efficacy with e-commerce categories such as fintech, insurance, healthcare and automotive, which surprised the analysts as well. "The additional demand density from e-commerce appears to have driven the take rate to new highs," the analysts add, noting that they assume a rapid succession of model enhancements in AppLovin's e-commerce model independent of gaming ads. BofA Securities raises its target price to $580 from $375 a share previously on the company's improved outlook. Shares jump 28%, to $487.21, a share. (sabela.ojea@wsj.com; @sabelaojeaguix)

1105 ET - Hewlett Packard Enterprise has shipped its first Nvidia Blackwell family-based technology, the GB200 NVL72, a rack-scale system aimed at service providers and large enterprises for deploying AI clusters. This system uses advanced direct liquid cooling for efficiency and performance, featuring shared-memory, low-latency architecture for AI models over a trillion parameters. It blends Nvidia CPUs, GPUs, networking, and software for handling parallel workloads like GenAI. The GB200 NVL72 includes 72 GPUs, 36 CPUs, and up to 13.5 TB of HBM3e memory with 576 TB/sec bandwidth. (chris.wack@wsj.com)

0815 ET - The cost of insuring Chinese debt against default using credit default swaps falls as market sentiment improves driven by China's AI advancements. News about China's DeepSeek AI advances have boosted risk appetite and driven gains for Chinese stocks, Patrick Munnelly, partner at Tickmill Group says in a note. China's five-year credit default swaps decline 2 basis points to 47bps, a two-year low, S&P Global Market Intelligence data show. (miriam.mukuru@wsj.com)

0731 ET - Telus' mobile segment continued to see the pressure of increased competition for fewer new subscribers in 4Q. Mobile average revenue per unit fell 3.6% to C$58.05 due to lower-priced base rate plans "in response to more intense marketing and promotional price competition targeting both new and existing customers." Gross mobile additions were down 22,000 to 523,000 which it says is due to decelerating growth in the Canadian population and a greater emphasis on premium and profitable loading. "The deceleration in immigration growth, observed later in 2024, is limiting our ability to add to our subscriber base," it says. (adriano.marchese@wsj.com)

0502 ET - Delivery Hero investors will want to see progress in South Korea before market confidence is fully restored, UBS analysts write. Delivery Hero's fourth-quarter results show the impact of the decision to fade out free-delivery for non-subscribers in South Korea, they write. The move hit growth in gross merchandise value--the value of merchandise sold over a certain period--but Delivery Hero has flagged it is making progress increasing subscribers, the analysts write. Shares in the German food-delivery company have been volatile but its results are operationally encouraging, they add. Shares trade up 6.6% at 28.02 euros. Over the past 3 months the shares have fallen 28% but are up 20% over the past 52 weeks. (adam.whittaker@wsj.com)

0407 ET - Delivery Hero's full-year 2025 guidance points to another year of improved profitability and cash flow generation, Jefferies analysts write. The guidance is well-aligned with consensus expectations, they say. The German food-delivery company comfortably met its full-year 2024 guidance after a strong fourth-quarter, they write. Delivery Hero reported a slowdown in growth in Asia but this was not a surprise to investors, they write. The company is expected to use its call with analysts later in the day to explain its turnaround strategy in South Korea, the analysts add. Shares trade up 6.6% at 28.01 euros. (adam.whittaker@wsj.com)

0212 ET - China's resurging consumer-electronics demand and solid automotive growth could boost SMIC's chip business over the next five years, DBS analyst Jim Au says in a research note. SMIC is well-positioned to capitalize on the acceleration of localization of semiconductor production while DeepSeek's breakthrough further strengthens capital flows for foundries making graphic processing units and AI accelerators, he says. Despite pressure on average selling prices for wafers amid competition and rising depreciation expenses, improving consumer-electronics demand and increasing AI-related product launches in China could outweigh the margin drag for SMIC, Au says. DBS maintains a buy call on SMIC's H-shares but raises its target to HK$53.20 from HK$37.00. Shares are last at HK$46.35. (sherry.qin@wsj.com)

2233 ET - Semiconductor Manufacturing International Corp.'s share price in Hong Kong likely fully reflects its upward potential, Bocom International analysts say in a note. SMIC's 4Q revenue was better than expected, which management attributed to China's goods and equipment trade-in subsidies and the rush to place orders amid tariff uncertainties. However, the bank cuts SMIC to neutral from buy as high capex could weigh on margins and downstream demand is uncertain. It lifts SMIC's target price to HK$48.00 from HK$32.00 after a recent rally. SMIC's H-shares have gained amid the chip cycle upswing and other positive factors like chip production localization, more liquidity in Hong Kong's stock market and Chinese AI firm DeepSeek's breakthrough, but the positives look priced in. Shares last up 0.5% at HK$48.20. (sherry.qin@wsj.com)

1935 ET - Domain's first-half result helped send the Australian real-estate advertiser's shares higher in early trade, but it wasn't all good news for Citi analyst Siraj Ahmed. He tells clients in a note that the Nine Entertainment-controlled classifieds group lowered its listings growth outlook, while residential depth revenue growth also slowed in the December quarter. The interim dividend also fell short of the average analyst forecast, he adds. Citi has a last-published neutral rating and A$3.20 target price on the stock, which is up 9.3% at A$2.985. (stuart.condie@wsj.com)

1836 ET - AppLovin's Marketing Chief Katie Jansen has tendered her resignation, effective March 14, the company says as it discloses the sale of its gaming business to focus on its advertising segment. Jansen had served as CMO of the mobile advertising technology company, whose shares have skyrocketed more than sevenfold over the past year. Shares jump 28% to $486.51 after hours. (sabela.ojea@wsj.com; @sabelaojeaguix)

1413 ET - DoorDash is higher after 4Q revenue and orders beat Wall Street estimates, and UBS says the food delivery company should deliver incremental adjusted Ebitda dollars for 2025 to 2027 at least at the levels seen in 2024 of greater than $700M. Still, the analysts say in a research note that there is a lingering unanswered question around the timing of adjusted Ebitda flowthrough. "We continue to prefer Uber given clearer adjusted Ebitda targets through 2026, ongoing platform synergies, and potential for Waymo partnership expansion in 2025," the analysts add. UBS raises its target price to $204 from $200. DoorDash rises 2.8% to $198.52. (sabela.ojea@wsj.com; @sabelaojeaguix)

1337 ET - The Super Bowl seemed to be a good day for online sports betting companies, with Flutter Entertainment's Fanduel reporting a 19% increase in bets to 16.6 million, and BetMGM calling it "one of the best single game results in company history," BofA Securities analysts say in a research note. The ability to grow double-digits during the biggest event of the year could help ease concerns of slowing handle, or the amount of money wagered by bettors, the analysts say. DraftKings led active user share on Sunday at 23%, followed by FanDuel at 17%, while Bet365, PrizePicks and ESPN Bet each had 10% share, BofA says. Still, the analysts don't expect DraftKings to raise guidance, as it might face $100 million of annualized headwinds from higher taxes in Maryland and Ohio, together with launch costs in Missouri. (sabela.ojea@wsj.com; @sabelaojeaguix)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250213012684:0/)
