---
title: "News Highlights: Top Company News of the Day - Thursday at 1 AM ET"
date: "2025-02-13 14:15:00"
summary: "Ray-Ban Maker EssilorLuxottica Logs Higher Sales Amid North America, China GrowthIn North America, fourth-quarter revenue rose 7.8%, while revenue in China rose about 50%, the company said.Jamie Dimon Sounds Off on Remote Work, Bureaucracy, 'Pablum and Bulls-'JPMorgan Chase CEO doesn't hold back answering questions during an internal meeting with staffers..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

**Ray-Ban Maker EssilorLuxottica Logs Higher Sales Amid North America, China Growth**

In North America, fourth-quarter revenue rose 7.8%, while revenue in China rose about 50%, the company said.

**Jamie Dimon Sounds Off on Remote Work, Bureaucracy, 'Pablum and Bulls-'**

JPMorgan Chase CEO doesn't hold back answering questions during an internal meeting with staffers of the financial giant.

**FCC set to investigate media giant Comcast over diversity commitments and says it could shut down DEI programs elsewhere**

Comcast says it 'will be cooperating with the FCC to answer their questions'

**Treasury Wine Fails to Find Buyers for Its Budget Brands**

Treasury Wine Estates admitted defeat in its effort to divest brands including Wolf Blass and Blossom Hill, moderating its annual earnings guidance amid weaker sales of its cheaper products.

**Cisco Systems Raises Revenue Forecast as Profit and Sales Beat Estimates**

CEO Chuck Robbins said the company is positioned to capitalize on demand for artificial intelligence.

**Musk's X Agrees to Pay About $10 Million to Settle Trump Lawsuit**

The platform becomes the second social-media company to settle with Trump after Jan. 6, 2021, riot triggered bans.

**BuzzFeed to Cut About 5% of Workforce**

BuzzFeed expects to reduce about 5% of its workforce, seeking to streamline its HuffPost news operations.

**The Big Question Looming Over Deere Earnings**

Farmers are already having a tough time. How much will Trump's tariffs impact the company's sales?

**Intel's stock is on a run not seen in more than two decades**

Intel's stock has enjoyed a strong three-day rally, fueled by a hospitable political climate and analyst commentary about its CPU business.

**Applovin Revenue Surges on Advertising Business**

The company, which owns "Matchington Mansion" and "Game of War," said it's looking to close the sale of its mobile gaming division in the second quarter.

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250213000931:0-news-highlights-top-company-news-of-the-day-thursday-at-1-am-et/)
