---
title: "Blanket Tariffs Won't Fix the China Problem. A Smarter Approach. — Barrons.com"
date: "2025-02-12 02:23:00"
summary: "By Aaron L. FriedbergAbout the author: Aaron L. Friedberg is a nonresident senior fellow at the American Enterprise Institute. He is also a professor at Princeton University and serves on the U.S.-China Economic and Security Review Commission. (The views expressed here are his own and don't represent those of the..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Aaron L. Friedberg

About the author: Aaron L. Friedberg is a nonresident senior fellow at the American Enterprise Institute. He is also a professor at Princeton University and serves on the U.S.-China Economic and Security Review Commission. (The views expressed here are his own and don't represent those of the commission.)

Tariff melodrama has consumed Washington, but the Trump administration's new trade barriers have so far done little to confront the very real danger that Chinese mercantilism poses to our nation's security and future prosperity.

The administration's 10% top-up of existing tariffs on all Chinese imports went into effect Monday. New 25% steel and aluminum tariffs scheduled for March 12 will also affect China, as well as other steel-producing countries. These tariffs may succeed in calling attention to the urgent problem of Chinese industrial overcapacity, but a smarter, targeted approach will be needed to actually limit its harmful effects.

China could account for 45% of global industrial production by 2030 if present trends continue. President Xi Jinping wants China to dominate supply chains for the full spectrum of industrial goods, from essential raw materials to the most sophisticated end products. His aim is to make China both indispensable and invulnerable, enhancing its leverage globally while resisting others' attempts to reciprocate.

Xi's goals are increasingly within reach. Massive subsidies enable Chinese overcapacity in almost every sector, dragging down prices and deterring potential foreign competitors. China commands roughly one-third of total global output of intermediate goods — the parts and components that make up the products we buy in stores or online. Its dominance grows further upstream in supply networks, where it enjoys a virtual monopoly in many critical metals, chemicals, and precursor components.

China's excess scale-at-any-cost strategy is wasteful and inefficient but, if left to proceed unchecked, it could deindustrialize advanced and developing nations alike. Led by the U.S., other countries have belatedly started to react. Realizing that China cannot be persuaded to alter course, or compelled to do so by the World Trade Organization, they have begun to take steps to defend themselves by imposing protective tariffs.

But China has already taken measures to weaken the effects of those tariffs. As early as 2019, shortly after the first Trump administration imposed initial tariffs, Chinese exporters reconfigured their supply chains to avoid the new duties. In some cases, this involved little more than transshipping relabeled products through third countries; in others it required setting up factories in those countries for assembly using Chinese inputs before export to the U.S. Even where evasion isn't the intent, large quantities of Chinese parts and materials avoid tariffs because they are embedded in an array of imports from our other trade partners.

Western multinationals attempting to diversify their supply chains have done little to improve the situation because the other countries from which they source parts and materials are often themselves supplied by China. The result: longer supply chains layered through intermediaries that add little value to Chinese-origin content and don't lessen the West's true dependence on China.

Dealing with this tangled landscape will require a sweeping overhaul of the way the U.S. and other like-minded countries apply tariffs. These changes will enable them to track China's pervasive presence through entire industrial ecosystems.

The solution must be built on three principles. First, it should focus on a selection of critical and vulnerable goods by flagging all their constituent components using the existing hierarchy of universal trade codes. Second, tariffs on such goods should be levied on their accumulated Chinese content, tracked back all the way through the supply network. Third, the system must be digitized to handle the considerable load of information processing required.

Importing countries applying tariffs on Chinese content should require "positive proof" as an incentive for transparent, accurate reporting. Starting from the border, each successive layer of manufacturers back through the supply network must verify the sources of their content. If a source remains unverified or doubtful, a China-targeted tariff will automatically be applied to that portion of the final, imported product it represents.

In commercial trade, goods don't get thrown over a wall anonymously from sellers to uninformed buyers. Each trade participant has financial accounts, including invoices and receipts, and those documents must in turn identify companies and their locations. No matter how many middlemen are inserted in this chain, for the entire system to work a portion of a good's final value must ultimately find its way back to each of the upstream factories involved in its manufacture. An effective screening process will pressure the entire supply network to "follow the money" so that the true total percentage of China content in the final import is revealed.

This sounds implausible, given the backwardness of today's paper-based trade systems. That is why a fully paperless trade system is essential. The idea isn't new, and the technology has long been available. Large enterprise-software firms are amply equipped to build a secure automated trade reporting platform. It would ensure that commercially sensitive information is kept confidential while certain other information (regarding sources or prices) is open for interested parties to inspect.

Companies know their own industries best and will have an interest in validating whether a rival's reported supplier is legitimate. Digital platforms can provide credentialed participants with selective, real-time access and can securely compress information into manageably sized documents.

This new system should be implemented in stages. Ideally a coalition of importer countries will agree on sensitive sectors, make their platforms interoperable, and coordinate tariffs and other policies needed to create alternative sources of supply. But the U.S. must take the lead.

Illuminating and penalizing China's role in sensitive global value networks would create opportunities and incentives for other countries, developing and developed alike, to build alternative local production capacity. Rather than punishing allies and partners with blanket tariffs, the Trump administration should instead target China's key industrial inputs wherever they appear.

Beijing's industrial overcapacity can no longer be permitted to threaten others' jobs and capabilities in strategic and critical sectors. China needs to dial back its overproduction. If it wants to set up operations overseas, it must transfer technology and know-how to its partners that will allow them to compete. With a strong system in place, attempts to bypass protective barriers through ghost networks can be exposed and blocked. Addressing the challenge of China's massive manufacturing export surplus should be Washington's top trade priority.

Guest commentaries like this one are written by authors outside the Barron's newsroom. They reflect the perspective and opinions of the authors. Submit feedback and commentary pitches to ideas@barrons.com .

This content was created by Barron's, which is operated by Dow Jones & Co. Barron's is published independently from Dow Jones Newswires and The Wall Street Journal.

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250211008647:0/)
