---
title: "Crude falls for the week as Trump's historic moves 'write the script' for oil in the short term"
date: "2025-02-08 04:54:00"
summary: "By Myra P. Saefong and William WattsPrices down 3 weeks straight, pressured by tariff fears and rise in U.S. supplyOil futures climbed Friday from their lowest levels of the year, but tallied a third straight weekly fall amid rising U.S. inventories and worries that the Trump administration's higher tariffs on..."
categories:
  - "MarketWatch"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "MarketWatch"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Myra P. Saefong and William Watts

Prices down 3 weeks straight, pressured by tariff fears and rise in U.S. supply

Oil futures climbed Friday from their lowest levels of the year, but tallied a third straight weekly fall amid rising U.S. inventories and worries that the Trump administration's higher tariffs on China will dent economic growth and demand for crude.

Price moves

* West Texas Intermediate crude CL00 for March delivery CL.1 CLH25 rose 39 cents, or nearly 0.6%, to $71 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange - but prices for the front-month contract lost 2.1% for the week, according to Dow Jones Market Data.
* April Brent crude BRN00 BRNJ25, the global benchmark, added 37 cents, or 0.5%, at $74.66 a barrel on ICE Futures Europe, for a weekly decline of 1.3%.
* March gasoline RBH25 tacked on 1.5% to $2.11 a gallon, up 2.2% for the week, while March heating oil HOH25 climbed 1.4% to $2.43 a gallon, for a weekly rise of 1.4%.
* Natural gas for March delivery NGH25 settled at $3.31 per million British thermal units, down 2.9% for the session but posting a weekly rise of 8.7%.

Market drivers

Overall, "the biggest influence on oil prices, no doubt, is President Donald Trump," Phil Flynn, senior market analyst at the Price Futures Group, told MarketWatch. "The president will keep us guessing - from tariffs on to tariffs off."

Trump this week restated a goal from his first presidency to bring Iran's oil exports to zero, and there's speculation he may unveil a peace plan to end the war in Ukraine.

Read: Trump is putting 'maximum economic pressure' on Iran. What's next for oil?

The largest effects on the oil market will be "whether sanctions on Russia would continue to be in place if a peace deal was agreed upon," said Alex Hodes, director of energy-market strategy for StoneX, in Friday's newsletter. "If sanctions were removed, there would be some downside volatility in crude-oil markets, even though Russian oil flows have remained steady since sanctions have been in place."

'All of these historic moves are going to write the script for oil in the short term and for the history books for generations to come.'Phil Flynn, Price Futures Group

All in all, however, "these historic moves are going to write the script for oil in the short term and for the history books for generations to come," said Flynn.

On Friday afternoon, Trump said he would announce reciprocal tariffs next week. Details on that are "missing," Louis Navellier, founder and chief investment officer of Navellier & Associates, wrote in a daily note. He expected more volatility in the financial markets going into the weekend, as "the new administration has been showing a tendency to make new announcements over the weekends."

WTI, the U.S. oil benchmark, had fallen toward $70 a barrel on Thursday, finding "strong dip-buying" interest this morning, Ipek Ozkardeskaya, senior analyst at Swissquote Bank, said in a note. Both WTI and Brent ended Thursday at their lowest since Dec. 27.

Concerns over Trump's trade policies - after the imposition of an additional 10% tariff on China this week and uncertainty over other tariff moves - threaten to "hammer global growth prospects and will probably support a deeper retreat in crude prices," she wrote, with a fall toward the $65 to $68 range now looking plausible.

A hefty rise in weekly U.S. crude supplies contributed to oil's losses this week. The Energy Information Administration reported Wednesday that commercial crude inventories climbed for a second week in a row, rising by 8.7 million barrels for the week that ended Jan. 31.

-Myra P. Saefong -William Watts

This content was created by MarketWatch, which is operated by Dow Jones & Co. MarketWatch is published independently from Dow Jones Newswires and The Wall Street Journal.

[MarketWatch](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_SN20250207008552:0/)
