---
title: "Nasdaq Leads Indexes Higher; Metals Stocks Jump — WSJ"
date: "2025-02-11 03:05:00"
summary: "By Joe Wallace and Alexander OsipovichPresident Trump launched another broadside against America's trading partners. Markets shrugged.After the president said he plans to put 25% tariffs on steel and aluminum imports, major U.S. stock indexes rose, led by the Nasdaq Composite. Shares of U.S. Steel, Alcoa and other producers of the..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Joe Wallace and Alexander Osipovich

President Trump launched another broadside against America's trading partners. Markets shrugged.

After the president said he plans to put 25% tariffs on steel and aluminum imports, major U.S. stock indexes rose, led by the Nasdaq Composite. Shares of U.S. Steel, Alcoa and other producers of the two metals were up sharply in afternoon trading. Steel-futures prices jumped.

In currency markets, the U.S. dollar strengthened against the Mexican peso, the Japanese yen and the Canadian dollar. Canada is the biggest exporter of steel and aluminum to the U.S.

Broadly, though, global markets were calm. Tariff fatigue might be part of the explanation. After Trump's zig-zags over tariffs on Canada, Mexico and Colombia in recent weeks, many investors think the president sees trade taxes as a negotiating tool.

The sangfroid may also reflect relief that Trump appears to be leaning against across-the-board tariffs. The president has hinted he may instead impose reciprocal levies on countries that charge tariffs on U.S. goods.

In recent trading:

Stock indexes rose. The Dow industrials, S&P 500 and Nasdaq all advanced.

Steel futures prices jumped more than 6%.

Major overseas stock markets rose despite Trump's tariff move. The Stoxx Europe 600 advanced to a new record. BP shares led the index, gaining 7.1% after activist investor Elliott Management took a stake. In Hong Kong, the Hang Seng Index rose 1.8%, with Alibaba up 5.5%.

McDonald's is up more than 4% on its latest quarterly earnings. Strength in the restaurant giant's international business helped offset a decline in U.S. same-store sales.

Gold futures extended a record-setting rally, with the most active contracts trading above $2,930 a troy ounce. The precious metal has been buoyed recently by central-bank and investor purchases.

U.S. Treasury prices slipped. The 10-year yield was recently at 4.499%, a small gain from Friday. Bond prices and yields move in opposite directions.

This item is part of a Wall Street Journal live coverage event. The full stream can be found by searching P/WSJL (WSJ Live Coverage).

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250210008654:0/)
