---
title: "Australia Could Acquire Country's Third Largest Airline — Update"
date: "2025-02-12 08:01:00"
summary: "By Stuart CondieSYDNEY--Australia's government is prepared to bring the country's third-largest airline under state ownership if insolvency specialists can't find a buyer for the troubled domestic carrier.Regional Express, which flies to destinations not serviced by larger carriers such as Qantas, entered voluntary administration in July. Rex, at it is known..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Stuart Condie

SYDNEY--Australia's government is prepared to bring the country's third-largest airline under state ownership if insolvency specialists can't find a buyer for the troubled domestic carrier.

Regional Express, which flies to destinations not serviced by larger carriers such as Qantas, entered voluntary administration in July. Rex, at it is known locally, can be the only option for so-called fly-in, fly-out workers to remote mining projects.

Rex is just one of the smaller carriers to have struggled in an Australian market dominated by Qantas, a formerly government-owned giant with a market capitalization of about 14.3 billion Australian dollars, or US$9 billion.

No. 2 player Virgin Australia was bought by Bain Capital in 2020 after Covid-related travel bans had forced it into administration, a process similar to U.S. bankruptcy. Bonza, a startup low-cost carrier backed by Miami-based investment firm 777 Partners, collapsed last year.

In November, the government provided up to A$80 million in financing to help pay Rex staff and keep its planes flying. Last month, it acquired A$50 million in debt from Rex's existing creditors.

"When markets fail or struggle to deliver for regional communities, the government has a role to ensure people do not miss out on opportunities, education and critical connections," Australia's transport minister, Catherine King, said.

The government said it won't bid for Rex, but would step in if administrator EY cannot find a buyer.

Rex had a market capitalization of about A$64 million when it entered administration. Its shares fell more than 75% since December 2020.

Write to Stuart Condie at stuart.condie@wsj.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250211012973:0/)
