---
title: "Global Equities Roundup: Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-11 18:54:00"
summary: "The latest Market Talks covering Equities. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.1053 GMT - Merck KGaA's potential acquisition of SpringWorks Therapeutics puts Merck's healthcare business strategy into question, Equita analyst Davide Marchesin says in a note. The German pharma company previously said it would focus on licensing..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The latest Market Talks covering Equities. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.

1053 GMT - Merck KGaA's potential acquisition of SpringWorks Therapeutics puts Merck's healthcare business strategy into question, Equita analyst Davide Marchesin says in a note. The German pharma company previously said it would focus on licensing agreements rather than full acquisitions for its healthcare business. "Taking over SpringWorks Therapeutics would not be in line with such statement, increasing the market skepticism about Merck's strategy," the analyst says. Shares are down 0.1% at 134.85 euros.(helena.smolak@wsj.com)

1052 GMT - Merck KGaA's potential acquisition of SpringWorks Therapeutics could boost its cancer-treatment pipeline, but the profitability of the deal is questionable, Equita analyst Davide Marchesin says in a note. "Therapeutics is generating over 350 million euros of annual revenues and it is loss making, therefore one critical question would be if the acquisition would be accretive from year one," the analyst says. The German pharma company's acquisition of the U.S. biopharmaceutical company would be one of the biggest pharma deals for Merck in recent years, potentially amounting to around 4 billion euros with a peak sales potential of over 1.0 billion euros in a few years, he says. Merck's shares are up 0.4% at 135.45 euros. (helena.smolak@wsj.com)

1049 GMT - India's Sensex fell 1.3% to nearly a two-week low of 76,293.60, marking the lowest levels since Jan 29. With tariff fatigue setting in, attention is shifting to U.S. CPI data due this week, writes Eugene Leow of DBS Group Research in a note. Zomato fell 5.2%, Tata Steel lost 2.9%, and Bajaj Finserv dropped 2.7%. Bharti Airtel edged up 0.2%. (kimberley.kao@wsj.com)

1048 GMT - BP recognizes that it has work to do to improve investor confidence, Quilter Cheviot's Maurizio Carulli writes. The company is reviewing its capital expenditure and share buyback policy. The British oil and gas company's poor share price performance in 2024 has dragged on shareholder confidence, the analyst adds. As returns come into focus, BP's guidance for divestments worth $3 billion in 2025 can be viewed as a positive, he adds. Shares trade up 0.2% to 466 pence. (adam.whittaker@wsj.com)

1043 GMT - Rheinmetall told investors in a pre-close call on Monday that it is on track to reach its 2024 guidance of 10 billion euros in sales and an operating margin of 15%, with defense growth expected to rise by 50%, Alpha Value's Saima Hussain says. The German arms maker expects operating free cash flow to surpass forecasts due to pre-payments, she writes in a research note. The company's order backlog will reach 54 billion euros for the end of 2024, instead of an initial estimate of between 60 billion and 70 billion euros, due to a delay in the award of two German digital contracts, which were postponed to this year. That also means Rheinmetall's 2025 backlog is expected to soar to 80 billion euros, she notes. Shares are up 0.4% at 734.2 euros. (cristina.gallardo@wsj.com)

1042 GMT - Rheinmetall's confirmation on Monday that it submitted a nonbinding offer for Thyssenkrupp Marine Systems' marine business signals its intent to position itself in the naval defense business, Alpha Value analyst Saima Hussain says. This would create competition for France's Naval Group, partly owned by Thales, she notes. Rheinmetall is still waiting for feedback from TKMS, which seems to prefer a spinoff instead, Hussain adds. Shares in Rheinmetall are up 0.2% at 732.4 euros. (cristina.gallardo@wsj.com)

1041 GMT - Amsterdam-listed stainless steel company Aperam doesn't expect to be significantly affected by tariffs imposed by the U.S. on steel and aluminum imports, the company says. Aperam has limited exposure to the tariffs as most of its U.S. revenue comes from its recycling business, which isn't affected by the levy, the company says. Most of its sales are domestic in the areas it operates in, and Aperam's stainless-steel exports from Europe to the U.S. are minimal and specialized, it adds. This means customers can't easily source them elsewhere, the company says. Should third-party imports to the U.S. get deflected to Europe, Aperam says it expects the European Commission to adopt measures to protect the interests of its domestic steel producers. Shares trade 1.4% lower to 28.72 euros. (pierre.bertrand@wsj.com)

1038 GMT - Entain's lack of a permanent boss makes it vulnerable, AJ Bell's Russ Mould writes in a note. A rival betting group or private equity could come around looking for takeover opportunities, he adds. Chief Executive Gavin Isaacs agreed to leave after just 161 days in the job. The London-listed company really needs to find someone with bold ideas to put it back on a winning streak, Mould says. "One could speculate that Isaacs didn't fit with the culture of Entain or that he didn't see eye to eye on strategy. It's worth noting that previous Entain boss Shay Segev only lasted 189 days in the top job in 2020-21, so the gambling group has form when it comes to short-lived leadership," Mould adds. Shares are down 10.4% at 665.20 pence. (najat.kantouar@wsj.com)

1026 GMT - Heineken is well positioned to achieve its 2024 organic operating profit growth guidance of between 4% and 8%, in line with peer Carlsberg's, which also meet its performance target, Morningstar says. The Dutch brewer is anticipated to report lower sales volume in both U.S. and Europe, however, recent price hikes in key markets are expected to drive a positive overall effect, equity analyst Verushka Shetty says in a note. "Despite a challenging 2024 environment, we believe Heineken is primed to leverage long-term industry trends such as premiumization at scale, portfolio diversification, and the growing demand for nonalcoholic beverages," Shetty adds. Shares are up 0.4% on Tuesday, but down nearly 30% over the last 52 weeks. (michael.susin@wsj.com)

1025 GMT - Kering's results show there was no real sign of improvement at Gucci, Bernstein analysts write in a note. The group's star label reported a 24% organic decline in revenue for the last three months, against consensus estimates of a 23% drop. The results follow the recent announcement that Sabato De Sarno is leaving the brand as creative chief. A strong replacement for De Sarno could work as a catalyst for both business and stock market improvement, they say. The most credible name reported by media could be fashion designer Hedi Slimane, who left LVMH's Celine brand in October, they add. Kering's tough year is reflected in its share price, they say. Shares have dropped around 40% in the past 12 months. (andrea.figueras@wsj.com)

1022 GMT - Entain's CEO departure suggests differences with the board, Davy research analysts Paul Ruddy and Tara Tabesh write in a note. "We spoke to the company and they noted that although Isaacs and the board were aligned on group strategy, there were differences between him and the Board which were seemingly unreconcilable," the analysts say. The company declined to comment when approached by Dow Jones Newswires. The London-listed the sports-betting and gambling group is at a critical point in its turnaround journey, so the timing is bad for group and will likely cause investor concerns, the analysts add. Shares are down 10.3% at 665.80 pence. (najat.kantouar@wsj.com)

1017 GMT - Aker Solutions reported fourth quarter results that were in line overall, as sales came in ahead but margins were weighed by losses at legacy projects, RBC Capital Markets analyst Victoria McCulloch writes. The company received its first dividend payment from the One Subsea joint venture of 77 million Norwegian kroner, and ended the year with 2.86 billion kroner of cash having also paid out 10 billion kroner in special dividends during the quarter. Aker Solutions expects full-year revenue in 2025 of between 50 billion and 55 billion kroner with EBITDA margins of 7%-7.5%. That compares to current consensus expectations of 51.7 billion in revenue and 7.3% EBITDA margins. Shares rise 3.4% to 33.80 kroner. (dominic.chopping@wsj.com)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250211002630:0/)
