---
title: "Saudi Arabia Announces $1.5 Billion Expansion to Fuel AI-powered Economy with AI Tech Leader Groq"
date: "2025-02-11 03:07:00"
summary: "Saudi Arabia Announces $1.5 Billion Expansion to Fuel AI-powered Economy with AI Tech Leader GroqPR NewswireMOUNTAIN VIEW, Calif. and RIYADH, Saudi Arabia, Feb. 10, 2025MOUNTAIN VIEW, Calif. and RIYADH, Saudi Arabia, Feb. 10, 2025 /PRNewswire/ — Silicon Valley AI pioneer Groq has secured a $1.5 billion commitment from the Kingdom..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Saudi Arabia Announces $1.5 Billion Expansion to Fuel AI-powered Economy with AI Tech Leader Groq

PR Newswire

MOUNTAIN VIEW, Calif. and RIYADH, Saudi Arabia, Feb. 10, 2025

MOUNTAIN VIEW, Calif. and RIYADH, Saudi Arabia, Feb. 10, 2025 /PRNewswire/ — Silicon Valley AI pioneer Groq has secured a $1.5 billion commitment from the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia (KSA) for expanded delivery of its advanced LPU-based AI inference infrastructure. Announced at LEAP 2025, this major agreement advances the Kingdom's position as a global leader in AI computing infrastructure while meeting rapidly growing regional demand.

$1.5B

Kingdom of Saudi Arabia

This agreement follows the operational excellence Groq demonstrated in building the region's largest inference cluster in December 2024. Brought online in just eight days, the rapid installation established a critical AI hub to serve surging compute demand globally.

From its state-of-the-art data center in Dammam, Saudi Arabia, Groq is now delivering market-leading AI inference capabilities to customers worldwide through GroqCloud(TM). At LEAP 2025, Jonathan Ross, CEO and Founder of Groq, alongside Tareq Almin and Ahmad O. Al-Khowaiter, Chief Technology Officer of Saudi Aramco, demonstrated reasoning LLMs, a KSA-created model Allam, and text to speech models in English and Arabic running live.

The $1.5 billion commitment towards Groq AI infrastructure represents a defining moment for both Groq and the Kingdom to deliver on the Vision 2030 goal of an AI-powered economy in Saudi Arabia.

"It's an honor for Groq to be supporting the Kingdom's 2030 vision," said Jonathan Ross, CEO and Founder of Groq. "We are excited to work alongside Saudi innovators to shape the next chapter of AI."

Learn more about how Groq is changing the AI industry at groq.com and if you're interested in access to GroqCloud, learn more here.

About Groq

Groq builds fast AI inference technology. GroqCloud(TM) delivers exceptional AI compute speed, quality, and energy efficiency for enterprises and developers with its LPU(TM) AI inference technology. Groq, headquartered in Silicon Valley, provides cloud and on-prem solutions at scale for AI applications. The LPU and related systems are designed, fabricated, and assembled in North America. Build fast with Groq at groq.com.

Media Contact

pr-media@groq.com

View original content to download multimedia:https://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/saudi-arabia-announces-1-5-billion-expansion-to-fuel-ai-powered-economy-with-ai-tech-leader-groq-302372643.html

SOURCE Groq

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250210008667:0/)
