---
title: "Global Equities Roundup: Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-12 09:48:00"
summary: "The latest Market Talks covering Equities. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.2048 ET - Chinese shares open lower, weighed by auto and telecom stocks after a recent rally. BYD drops 1.8% and Great Wall Motor is down 1.1%. Among telcos, China Telecom declines 1.9% and China Unicom..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The latest Market Talks covering Equities. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.

2048 ET - Chinese shares open lower, weighed by auto and telecom stocks after a recent rally. BYD drops 1.8% and Great Wall Motor is down 1.1%. Among telcos, China Telecom declines 1.9% and China Unicom sheds 0.4%. Battery giant CATL is 0.8% lower after applying for a secondary listing in Hong Kong on Tuesday. Software stocks are broadly higher, with Shanghai Baosight Software up 6.0%. The benchmark Shanghai Composite Index is 0.2% lower at 3312.22, the Shenzhen Composite Index is off by 0.1% and the ChiNext Price Index drops 0.2%. (sherry.qin@wsj.com)

2044 ET - Investors may consider a short-term trading strategy for palm oil in 1Q this year with planters expected to post strong 4Q 2024 results, Maybank IB analyst Ong Chee Ting notes. However the earnings tailwinds may not be sustainable, he cautions. CPO prices have risen recently due to weaker output but its high price premium over other vegetable oils could limit demand, he says. The spread between palm oil and gas oil has widened following a decline in crude oil prices, which may discourage biofuel usage, he says. Indonesia's B40 biodiesel mandate also faces risks if palm oil and gas oil prices remain elevated, he adds. Maybank maintains a neutral rating on Southeast Asia's plantations sector and pegs SD Guthrie, Genting Plantations and Bumitama Agri as its top picks. (yingxian.wong@wsj.com)

2037 ET - Hong Kong shares open higher, supported by tech and property stocks. Investor sentiment has been optimistic after multiple Chinese companies introduced DeepSeek in their services. Alibaba Group rises 4.1% after a news report cited sources as saying that it may collaborate with Apple on providing services to iPhone users, SMIC gains 3.2% after 4Q earnings. Xiaomi is up 3.2% and China Resources Land gains 1.7%. Meanwhile, Zhongsheng Group drops 0.6% and AIA Group is down 0.5%. The benchmark Hang Seng Index opens 1.1% higher at 21526.41 and the Hang Seng Tech Index gains 1.3%. (jiahui.huang@wsj.com; @ivy\_jiahuihuang)

2033 ET - Suntec REIT likely faces some headwinds at home and abroad, OCBC Investment Research says in a note. Rental adjustments for the REIT's Singapore office assets are expected to moderate in the future, and there continues to be uncertainty over the longer-term impact of work-from-home trends, OCBC says. In Australia and the U.K., the REIT's office portfolio has been affected by impairments to asset valuations given increases in capitalization rates and some pressure on occupancy rates. Other headwinds include the REIT's relatively high aggregate leverage ratio. OCBC lowers the REIT's fair value estimate to S$1.14 from S$1.19 with an unchanged hold rating. Units are unchanged at S$1.14. (ronnie.harui@wsj.com)

2020 ET - South Korea's benchmark Kospi edges 0.1% lower to 2537.43 after earlier swinging between mild gains and losses, as investors assess various developments. There have been U.S. President Trump's tariff actions and U.S. trading partners' dismay and pledges of retaliation to the latest tariffs, Phillip Securities Research team says in a commentary. Also, Fed Chair Powell reiterated that the central bank was in no hurry to adjust monetary policy, leaving a cloudy outlook for further rate cuts, the team adds. Among the worst performers on the Kospi, Krafton slides 11%, and Hyundai Autoever slips 3.7%. Meanwhile, Hanwha Systems climbs 14% and HD Hyundai Heavy Industries gains 11%. (ronnie.harui@wsj.com)

2010 ET - Singapore's FTSE Straits Times Index rises 0.3% to 3871.39. Investors are waiting for the U.S. January CPI data due later today, which could be a key signal for when U.S. interest rates are next expected to be cut. The market is also waiting for more concrete information about U.S. President Trump's potential trade tariffs, say Commerzbank Research analysts in a note. Among the gainers, Singtel rises 1.2%, Yangzijiang Shipbuilding adds 1.3% and Thai Beverage is up 1.0%. Meanwhile, Mapletree Industrial Trust falls 1.5% and Venture Corp. loses 0.7%.(amanda.lee@wsj.com)

2006 ET - Malaysia's benchmark Kuala Lumpur Composite Index is 0.2% higher at 1592.72. The local market outlook may remain uncertain, with risks tied to U.S. trade policy. However, clarity on tariffs may lead to mild gains on improving sentiment and reduced foreign fund selling could boost bargain hunting and rotational plays, Apex Securities says in a note. Export-focused sectors like technology, furniture and gloves could benefit from a stronger dollar, while plantation sector may see buying interest from higher CPO prices, it adds. Among gainers, YTL Power International adds 1.2% and YTL Corp. is up 1.5%. Meanwhile, Mr. D.I.Y. Group is down 0.6% and IHH Healthcare is 0.5% lower. (yingxian.wong@wsj.com)

1958 ET - Malaysia's palm-oil stocks could drop by another 7% on month to 1.48 million tons in February, due to continued low production and fewer working days, CIMB Securities analysts Ivy Ng Lee Fang and Lim Yue Jia say in a note. Malaysia's palm-oil stocks fell 7.5% on month in January. The continuation of the rainy season could further weigh on output, they add. The analysts believe CPO prices will remain firm due to low palm-oil stocks in key producing and consuming countries. CIMB maintains its 2025 CPO price forecast at MYR4,200/ton and expects stronger 4Q 2024 earnings from planters due to higher prices and stronger Indonesian production. CIMB keeps an overweight rating on Malaysia's agriculture & forestry sector, pegging SD Guthrie, IOI Corp. and Hap Seng Plantations as its top picks.(yingxian.wong@wsj.com)

1946 ET - Ley Choon Group Holdings' share price may extend its uptrend, according to a technical chart, Phillip Securities Research's Zane Aw says. The share price is consolidating within a "bullish flag" formation between S$0.055 and $0.059, which gives a bullish signal that it could sustain its uptrend, the analyst says. Also, momentum of the moving average convergence divergence indicator has been increasing, which supports the bullish view, the analyst says. Should shares rise above S$0.059 resistance level of the "bullish flag," they could extend gains to S$0.063, the analyst adds. Shares last quoted at S$0.055. (ronnie.harui@wsj.com)

1929 ET - Japanese stocks are higher as a weaker yen raises hopes for domestic earnings growth. Tech and shipping stocks are leading the gains. SoftBank Corp. is up 5.0% after its nine-month net profit climbed 7.4%. Kawasaki Kisen is up 4.0% and Mitsui O.S.K. Lines is 2.4% higher. USD/JPY is at 152.90, up from 152.49 as of Tuesday 5 p.m. Eastern time. Investors are closely watching domestic earnings as well as U.S. trade policies. Toray Industries and Yamaha Motor are scheduled to announce their quarterly results later in the day. The Nikkei Stock Average is up 0.3% at 38904.46. (kosaku.narioka@wsj.com; @kosakunarioka)

1902 ET - DoorDash has been studying its approach to autonomous food deliveries for years, but it doesn't have anything to announce at the moment, CEO Tony Xu says on a call with analysts. Still, the company is excited about all of the challenges that come with autonomy, the executive says. "I think a lot of us certainly working in the field probably either hoped for or expected this to have come sooner, but I think you're seeing just a lot of exciting existence proof points of what's to come," Xu says. So far, the company and its peers are looking into the total costs of operations that would come with it, he adds. Shares rise 5.7%, to $204.15, after the market close. (sabela.ojea@wsj.com; @sabelaojeaguix)

1849 ET - Japanese stocks may rise as a weaker yen raises hopes for domestic earnings growth. Nikkei futures are up 0.7% at 39060 on the SGX. USD/JPY is at 152.72, compared with 151.85 as of Monday's Tokyo stock market close. Japanese markets were closed Tuesday for a national holiday. Investors are focusing on earnings as well as U.S. trade policies. Toray Industries and Yamaha Motor are set to release their quarterly results later in the day. The Nikkei Stock Average closed flat at 38801.17 on Monday. (kosaku.narioka@wsj.com)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250211013273:0/)
