---
title: "How the Stock Market Could Avoid a Bloodbath — Barrons.com"
date: "2025-02-14 02:57:00"
summary: "By Jacob SonenshineThe S&amp;P 500 is extremely expensive, making it particularly vulnerable to declines. But it doesn't have to happen.The S&amp;P 500's nearly 70% gain since its bear-market bottom in late 2022 has lifted it to just above 6000, where it trades at about 22 times the aggregate earnings that..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Jacob Sonenshine

The S&P 500 is extremely expensive, making it particularly vulnerable to declines. But it doesn't have to happen.

The S&P 500's nearly 70% gain since its bear-market bottom in late 2022 has lifted it to just above 6000, where it trades at about 22 times the aggregate earnings that analysts expect companies to generate over the coming 12 months.

That is the highest in three years. Valuations are still in the clouds, even though inflation is still above the Federal Reserve's 2% target, the Fed has stopped cutting interest rates, economic growth has stopped accelerating, and the market is wondering how much the earnings growth that artificial intelligence has brought to Big Tech will slow down.

Put another way, the S&P 500's current level is arguably reflecting that earnings per share will grow 12% annually over the coming five years, according to Citi strategists. The higher the index's multiple over this year's earnings, the more growth in profits it is reflecting for the longer term.

The growth the market expects is lofty. While there have been a few moments in the past 50 years when the index's annual EPS growth was 12% or a touch above for the trailing five-year period, growth generally hovers below that. Sometimes it dips into the low single digits.

The fact that analysts, not just investors, also expect 12% annual growth for the next five years is an encouraging sign. Analysts tend to know and study their companies more thoroughly than anyone else.

But forecasts can be wrong. There are plenty of risks.

Economic growth could slow down, especially because the surge of consumer and business demand that followed the pandemic is over. President Donald Trump's tariffs — they are expected to lift the cost of goods, create more inflation, and could force the Federal Reserve to keep rates higher — could make that worse. Spending from U.S. software companies on AI could slow down, perhaps as a result of DeepSeek's lower-cost model, which would dent demand for Nvidia's chips and the industrial products that go into building data centers.

If things play out that way, analysts would lower their forecasts for sales and profits for companies in various sectors. The outlook for earnings growth would look much lower than 12%.

In this scenario, interest rates would rise and the market's view of the index's "terminal growth rate" of earnings, or the theoretical perpetual state of growth beyond the next few years, would drop. Both earnings forecasts and stocks' multiples relative to expectations for near-term profits would fall.

That could drag the index down 22% to 4700 in a worst-case scenario, Citi's Scott Chronert says.

Earnings themselves could come to the rescue. Perhaps companies will surpass profit expectations and provide healthy guidance, forcing analysts to lift projections. Not only would expected earnings rise, but the still strong profit growth would support current multiples, allowing stocks to move higher.

They could easily move a lot higher. Chronert's data showing the historical correlation between better-than-expected earnings and stock market performance tell the story. If aggregate earnings come in not even 10% higher than expected, forecast profits would rise, allowing the S&P 500 to post an annualized total return over the next five years that is double digits above the 4.5% yield on 10-year Treasury debt, he showed in a research note Tuesday.

It is entirely possible that earnings will beat the market's expectations. Spending on AI is just ramping up and the use of the technology is still spreading. That makes it likely that analysts are still coming to grips with the business opportunity for software companies offering AI agents. And the bigger that opportunity proves to be, the larger the potential demand for advanced semiconductors and industrial equipment used in data center.

Microsoft, Meta Platforms, Alphabet, Amazon.com, and Apple all reported higher earnings than expected for the quarter through December. Meta's profit was 9% higher than forecast, while Amazon's was 11% higher.

If results like those continue this year, estimates could move higher. So could the S&P 500.

Write to Jacob Sonenshine at jacob.sonenshine@barrons.com

This content was created by Barron's, which is operated by Dow Jones & Co. Barron's is published independently from Dow Jones Newswires and The Wall Street Journal.

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250213013278:0/)
