---
title: "Global Equities Roundup: Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-11 23:50:00"
summary: "The latest Market Talks covering Equities. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.1050 ET - Gerresheimer's destocking is expected to mimic trends seen by other pharmaceutical supplier peers, UBS analysts say in a research note. The analysts have trimmed their primary packaging glass forecasts. This is because they..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The latest Market Talks covering Equities. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.

1050 ET - Gerresheimer's destocking is expected to mimic trends seen by other pharmaceutical supplier peers, UBS analysts say in a research note. The analysts have trimmed their primary packaging glass forecasts. This is because they expect that vials destocking should abate by mid 2025 at the latest, they say. The German packaging company's shares trade broadly flat at 80.45 euros. (nina.kienle@wsj.com)

0946 ET - Forecasts for cold weather over the next 10 days, including a winter storm into the Midwest and Northeast, are giving natural gas futures an additional lift. "Possible well freeze-offs in the Appalachian northeast are keeping the bullish trend alive," BOK Financial's Dennis Kissler says. "Much colder temperatures this winter versus a year ago and rising LNG demand is making a statement." Kissler also notes European gas prices at 2-year highs given faster-than-expected depletion of storage. The Nymex front month is up 2.9% at $3.543/mmBtu. (anthony.harrup@wsj.com)

0939 ET - Coca-Cola CEO James Quincey says on a call with analysts that he's "focusing on innovation that prioritizes bigger and bolder bets," all of which serve specific purposes. This strategy led to a collaboration between Coca-Cola and Oreo, the objective of which was to create short-term buzz and resulted in limited-time drink and cookie offerings, he says. "In other instances, we innovate for lasting impact," Quincey adds. This was the case in expanding the company's portfolio of teas, sparkling waters and juices, which Quincey says are driving revenue growth. Shares rise 4% in early trading. (connor.hart@wsj.com)

0936 ET - Shopify says that its balance of expenses versus margin levels looks to find the right mix between profitability and growth of the business. CFO Jeff Hoffmeister says on the analyst call that the ecommerce platform aims to maintain a balance to see the right level of investment in 2025, similar to how it approached 2024, which included a strong marketing budget as well as sales pushes. "We want to maintain profitability, but invest in the future," because there are "too many compelling growth opportunities." (adriano.marchese@wsj.com)

0917 ET - Consumers are still buying beverages, even if they have to pay more. Coca-Cola in 4Q notched a 9% increase in price/mix--a metric that includes prices as well as product mix, packaging and size. The majority of the increase came from higher prices, CFO John Murphy says on a call with analysts, "split somewhat evenly between normal pricing actions across our markets and intense inflationary pricing in a handful of markets experiencing currency devaluations." Favorable mix accounted for 1% of the 9% increase, he adds. Shares gain 4.2% in premarket trading after Coca-Cola posts higher-than-expected revenue and profit in the recent quarter. (connor.hart@wsj.com)

0914 ET - Shopify is taking in new big players in the retail space while expanding services with existing customers. In his prepared statements, CEO Tobias Lutke says Shopify has signed big brands, such as Karl Lagerfeld, with 70 point of sale locations. FC Barcelona, another big coup in 4Q, with a 330 million fan base, is now using Shopify's POS system, not just online commerce services. Meanwhile, existing clients such as Everlane have taken on expanded services after being onboarded with basic services. Other notables, Lutke says, were shoe companies Aldo, Sperry with each deciding "to go all in with us." (adriano.marchese@wsj.com)

0912 ET — Shopify says AI is becoming a bigger part of its offering, and plans to pour more money into the service. In his prepared remarks, President Tobias Lutke says Shopify will "deepen investment in SideKick [Shopify's AI-enabled commerce assistant] and other AI capabilities." Lutke says the AI capabilities can serve its smaller merchants as well as its larger clients, which aim to support "streamlined operations and decision-making." In late January, China presented its low-cost AI model DeepSeek, which sent shivers across the rest of the tech space. But Shopify shares got a boost because it was seen as a potential beneficiary of AI models going open source, reducing costs. (adriano.marchese@wsj.com)

0855 ET - WK Kellogg rise 4% premarket after the cereal giant's adjusted profit tops analyst estimates, outweighing disappointing sales. The maker of Frosted Flakes and Froot Loops posted sales of $640M, down nearly 2% from year-ago levels, in part reflecting what Kellogg CEO Gary Pilnick calls an "ongoing challenging business environment." The sales decline also comes as consumers reject higher cereal prices. Kellogg says 4Q sales volumes fell 6% as prices increased 4%. Kellogg posts adjusted earnings of 42 cents per share, ahead of the 25 cents analysts expected. (jesse.newman@wsj.com)

0815 ET - Toronto-Dominion Bank expects to net C$20 billion from the sale of its investment in Charles Schwab, with C$8 billion of that earmarked for a share buyback program. The exit from Schwab is the first major move by the bank's new CEO. TD estimates the transaction, including the buyback, will create about 1.16 percentage point of CET1 capital. The remainder of the proceeds are to be invested in TD's businesses, and the transaction is set to bolster per-share earnings on a run-rate basis. Moody's views the credit impact of TD's Schwab sale as modest given the non-core nature of the investment, and with TD and Schwab continuing their insured deposit account agreement. However, Moody's says the plan to return a large portion of the proceeds to shareholders is credit negative, though TD had a CET1 ratio of 13.1% at the end of fiscal 4Q, well above regulatory minimums. (robb.stewart@wsj.com; @RobbMStewart)

0759 ET - Babcock International will outperform its midterm guidance, Citi analysts Sam Burgess and Charles Armitage say. They also expect the U.K. defense company to report 4.9 billion pounds in revenue in fiscal 2025, in line with company guidance, at about 7% margin. The group's Mentor 2 contract with the French government, worth up to 800 million euros, is likely to be welcomed by investors as a good long-term deal, but it also boosts regional diversification of revenue, they write. Citi increases its target price on the stock by 70 pence to 7.30 pounds. Shares are up 1.6% at 6.06 pounds. (cristina.gallardo@wsj.com)

0745 ET - SGS's 2027 strategy implementation is showing promising results, Vontobel analyst Michael Foeth says in a research note. The Swiss testing, inspection and certification company's strategy 2027 execution led to solid profitability improvement and strong free cash flow generation, the analyst says. This allowed for balance sheet deleveraging and an increased option for investors to receive more shares instead of a cash dividend, he says. Shares trade 6.5% higher at 97.08 Swiss francs. (nina.kienle@wsj.com)

0656 ET - SGS's outlook for 2025 looks encouraging, although broadly in line with consensus, Jefferies analysts say in a research note. The Swiss testing, inspection and certification company expects to deliver 5% to 7% organic growth, compared with consensus estimates at above 5.9%, the analysts say. SGS aims for a more than 30 basis points margin improvement, against consensus at more than 40 basis points. "Overall results, guidance and commentary we think will be viewed as encouraging," they say. Shares trade 6.1% higher at 96.72 Swiss francs.(nina.kienle@wsj.com)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250211007095:0/)
