---
title: "Global Equities Roundup: Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-11 11:23:00"
summary: "The latest Market Talks covering Equities. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.0323 GMT - DBS remains as a safe haven for investors to \"hide out and tide through\" current uncertainties and market volatility, say RHB Research analysts in a note. The Singapore bank's dividend and capital return..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The latest Market Talks covering Equities. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.

0323 GMT - DBS remains as a safe haven for investors to "hide out and tide through" current uncertainties and market volatility, say RHB Research analysts in a note. The Singapore bank's dividend and capital return policies offer investors clear visibility on the expected dividend yield ahead, they write. RHB raises its 2025 dividend per share forecast to S$3.06 from S$2.46 after factoring DBS' plans to introduce a capital return dividend of S$0.15 per quarter. RHB also raises the stock's target price to S$51.20 from S$44.70, while maintaining a buy rating. Shares are 1.0% lower at S$44.92.(amanda.lee@wsj.com)

0300 GMT - Wilmar International's 4Q earnings are projected to recover sequentially, UOB Kay Hian analysts write in a note. The agribusiness company's 4Q core net profit could range between US$330 million and US$340 million, up from 3Q's US$208 million, they say. The plantation and sugar milling segment is expected to see an on-quarter recovery, mainly due to palm oil plantations, they say. Profit margin from palm upstream likely improved, amid higher palm kernel prices and declining fertilizer costs, they add. UOB Kay Hian maintains a hold rating, while raising its target price to S$3.18 from S$3.00. Shares are 0.6% higher at S$3.26.(amanda.lee@wsj.com)

0256 GMT - Osotspa faces earnings hit from some new headwinds, Thanachart Securities' Pattadol Bunnak says in a research report. Its strategy to reintroduce a THB10/bottle energy drink in Thailand may cannibalize its own market share of existing THB12/bottle version and is unlikely to lead to imminent market-share gains since its rival's product costs THB10/bottle. Other worries are an expected income-tax increase stemming from the global minimum tax and more competition in Myanmar, the analyst adds. The brokerage slashes its earnings estimates for the Thailand beverage producer by 17% in 2025, 20% in 2026, and 35% in 2027. It cuts the stock's rating to sell from buy and the target price to THB13.00 from THB26.00. Shares closed 3.3% lower at THB14.70 on Monday. (ronnie.harui@wsj.com)

0247 GMT - Maybank remains bullish on DBS after the Singapore bank's 2024 earnings beat street expectations. DBS's loan growth is expected to accelerate to 5.4% on year in FY2025 and its return on equity to average to 15.8% in 2025-2027 compared with the 12% in the past 10 years, according to Maybank's head of equity research Thilan Wickramasinghe. While net interest margin growth is unlikely to persist going in to 2025, the management claims that the credit pipeline is strong, helping offset NIM declines, Wickramasinghe notes in a report. Earnings could grow at 1% CAGR over 2025-2027, while dividends may expand at 7%, delivering more than 6.5% yields, he says. All of the factors mentioned justifies a higher valuation, he adds. Maybank raises the stock's target price to S$51.37 From S$46.91. Shares are last at S$44.93. (monica.gupta@wsj.com)

0218 GMT - Singapore's FTSE Straits Times Index falls 0.4% to 3860.13, erasing earlier gains, amid cautious sentiment toward President Trump's announcement of global 25% tariffs on imports of steel and aluminum to the U.S. "Despite the markets' muted reactions, we caution against complacency given past experiences," DBS Group Research's Philip Wee says in commentary. The senior forex strategist cites Trump's tariff actions and announcements during his first presidential term. Among the worst performers on the benchmark index, Mapletree Industrial Trust falls 2.35%, Sembcorp Industries drops 1.9%, and Frasers Logistics & Commercial Trust sheds 1.7%. (ronnie.harui@wsj.com)

0150 GMT - Chinese shares are down, reversing slight gains at the open. Investors are cautious after President Trump imposed 25% tariffs on steel and aluminum imports, heightening the trade war. Software and consumer stocks are leading the decline. iFlytek is down 1.2% and Range Intelligent Computing Technology Group is 2.8% lower. China Tourism Group Duty Free Corp. is down 0.8% and Yonghui Superstores declines 2.15%. BYD rises 2.4% after it introduced an AI-powered driving assistance system in China. The benchmark Shanghai Composite Index is 0.1% lower at 3318.25, the Shenzhen Composite Index is down 0.5% and the ChiNext Price Index is 1.0% lower.(sherry.qin@wsj.com)

0142 GMT - Singapore Exchange stands to benefit from an uncertain macroeconomic outlook and potential rate cuts this year, UOB Kay Hian analysts say in a research report. These would improve trading velocity at SGX, sending its cash equities segment into revenue and profitability growth, the analysts say. Also, upcoming announcements from the Monetary Authority of Singapore's review group to revitalize Singapore's stock market would likely boost investor sentiment in 2025, they add. The brokerage lifts its FY 2025-2027 headline PATMI forecasts for SGX by 8%-9% to reflect higher margin assumptions. It raises the stock's target price to S$12.58 from S$11.83 with an unchanged hold rating. Shares are 0.4% higher at S$13.76. (ronnie.harui@wsj.com)

0140 GMT - Hong Kong benchmark Hang Seng Index is 0.1% higher at 21538.55, tracking Wall Street's gains overnight. The main theme overnight was risk-on, Commerzbank Research analysts say in a note. Investors have looked past U.S. President Trump's tariff threats on steel and aluminum, they write. BYD rises 3.8% after the company introduced a newdriving-assistance system for low-price mass-market vehicles on Monday. Other advancers include Sunny Optical Technology, which is up 6.2%, and Zijin Mining Group, which climbs 2.7%. Meanwhile, Geely Automobile loses 5.0% and Li Auto is down 3.3%.(amanda.lee@wsj.com)

0110 GMT - Singapore's FTSE Straits Times Index edges 0.1% higher to 3880.49 as investors appear to shrug off President Trump's announcement on Monday of global 25% tariffs on imports of steel and aluminum to the U.S. The announcement seems to lack any trigger for broad portfolio derisking and U.S. dollar strength, Pepperstone's Chris Weston says in commentary. "The ability of risky markets to absorb the news and maintain a steady bid is telling," the head of research adds. Among the best performers on the benchmark index, Thai Beverage rises 1.0%, Mapletree Logistics Trust adds 0.8% and Genting Singapore is up 0.7%. (ronnie.harui@wsj.com)

0102 GMT - BlueScope Steel is outperforming Australia's benchmark ASX 200 index after Prime Minister Anthony Albanese said the U.S. is considering exempting the country from tariffs on steel and aluminum. Albanese made the remarks following a call with President Trump. Albanese said Australia has a significant trade surplus with the U.S. dating back to the Truman administration and highlighted that BlueScope, which owns the North Star mill in Ohio, is the U.S.'s fifth-largest steel maker. The U.S. isn't a big destination for steel manufactured in Australia, which is mainly sold at home. BlueScope is up 1.7% today, outpacing a 0.2% rise by the ASX 200. (david.winning@wsj.com; @dwinningWSJ)

2359 GMT - Ansell's first-half result may give investors the mistaken impression that it is a growth stock, Morgans analyst Derek Jellinek says. He acknowledges that the protective garment manufacturer's performance was stronger than he had anticipated, but tells clients in a note that it was largely driven by acquisition gains, cost reductions, and one-off items. Customers have now finished restocking after running down inventory built up during the Covid-19 pandemic, he says. This spells an end to what he calls "easy gains" by Ansell's healthcare unit. With tariffs now a factor and potential of sales leakage from a change in processes, Jellinek is cautious. Morgans raises its target price by 23% to A$33.38 but keeps a hold rating on the stock, which is down 2.75% at A$36.73. (stuart.condie@wsj.com)

2339 GMT - Ansell's bull at Macquarie continues to see value in the stock despite the share-price surge that met the protective-garment maker's stronger-than-expected first-half earnings. An analyst note from the investment bank tells clients that the Australia-listed company's upgraded full-year guidance implies 4% in annual organic Ebit growth. The bank's analyst is slightly more optimistic on this metric, and forecasts 5% organic Ebit growth. The stock jumped 8.1% on release of the first-half result, but Macquarie maintains its outperform rating. Its target price rises 26% to A$40.30. Shares are down 2.6% at A$36.79. (stuart.condie@wsj.com)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250210012643:0/)
