---
title: "Philippine Central Bank Unexpectedly Holds Rates as Uncertainty Rises"
date: "2025-02-13 15:24:00"
summary: "By Amanda LeeThe Philippine central surprised markets by keeping its policy rate on hold, pausing its easing cycle and signaling increased caution as macroeconomic risks mount.Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas maintained its benchmark overnight reverse repurchase rate at 5.75%, Gov. Eli Remolona said Thursday. It also held its benchmark lending rate..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Amanda Lee

The Philippine central surprised markets by keeping its policy rate on hold, pausing its easing cycle and signaling increased caution as macroeconomic risks mount.

Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas maintained its benchmark overnight reverse repurchase rate at 5.75%, Gov. Eli Remolona said Thursday. It also held its benchmark lending rate steady at 6.25%.

Risks and uncertainty to the outlook justify keeping rates on hold now, the central bank governor said.

The decision had not been expected by any of the 13 economists polled by The Wall Street Journal, with recent data showing a tepid expansion by the Southeast Asian economy last year, and inflation looking manageable and on target.

Prior to Thursday's pause, the BSP had been cutting rates steadily since August last year, looking past the risk of adding pressure to the Philippine peso even amid expectations of slower, shallower easing by the Federal Reserve. Fed Chair Jerome Powell said this week that the U.S. central bank doesn't need to rush to lower interest rates.

At the Philippine central bank's meeting in December, Remolona said that barring any unexpected surprises in economic data, policymakers would keep taking "baby steps" in bringing down borrowing costs.

BSP will remain data dependent in ensuring price stability, he emphasized on Thursday.

The central bank's risk-adjusted inflation forecast for 2025 was nudged up to 3.5%, with the projection for 2026 was kept at 3.7%.

Write to Amanda Lee at amanda.lee@wsj.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250213003355:0-philippine-central-bank-unexpectedly-holds-rates-as-uncertainty-rises/)
