---
title: "News Highlights: Top Company News of the Day - Wednesday at 11 AM ET"
date: "2025-02-13 00:15:00"
summary: "CVS Health Stock Jumps on Earnings Beat and Solid Guidance. 'Phew!' Says One Analyst.CVS Health rises after fourth-quarter adjusted earnings easily top analysts' estimates.Kraft Heinz wraps up 'challenging' year with a profit warning as stock dropsThe company said it's \"committed to making the necessary investments to drive top-line improvement, while..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

**CVS Health Stock Jumps on Earnings Beat and Solid Guidance. 'Phew!' Says One Analyst.**

CVS Health rises after fourth-quarter adjusted earnings easily top analysts' estimates.

**Kraft Heinz wraps up 'challenging' year with a profit warning as stock drops**

The company said it's "committed to making the necessary investments to drive top-line improvement, while remaining disciplined."

**Tesla Can't Afford Another Twitter-Size Distraction**

Elon Musk's bid for OpenAI and his divisive political image raise new risks for Tesla's expensive stock.

**Food Lion Owner Posts Lower U.S. Sales, Profitability on Price Cuts**

The company said measures to bring down prices at Stop & Shop took a toll on profitability.

**SoftBank Posts Quarterly Loss, Gears Up for Giant AI Project**

The tech investment company reported a quarterly loss, partly due to the weakness in its technology funds business, as it geared up for the Stargate project.

**Heineken Rallies After Brewer's Results Beat Expectations**

Heineken shares soared after the company posted earnings that beat market forecasts and its own guidance, boosted by sales of premium and nonalcoholic beer, and launched a share buyback of $1.55 billion.

**Baidu in Talks to Operate Robotaxis in U.A.E.**

The Chinese internet company is in discussions with United Arab Emirates authorities to bring its driverless ride-hailing service to the Middle Eastern country, people familiar with the matter said.

**Lyft Sees Growth Slowdown in Gross Bookings**

Lyft posted a quarterly profit of $61.7 million compared with a loss of $26.3 million a year ago. Wall Street analysts had expected a loss of $3.4 million.

**Chinese Battery Giant CATL Files for Hong Kong Listing**

The world's largest maker of EV batteries has applied for a secondary listing in Hong Kong, joining the ranks of Chinese companies looking to tap the city's fundraising markets.

**Alibaba Shares Surge After Progress in Apple Partnership**

Alibaba's shares surged as the e-commerce giant made progress in its partnership with Apple to roll out artificial-intelligence features in China.

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250212009860:0-news-highlights-top-company-news-of-the-day-wednesday-at-11-am-et/)
