---
title: "ANYWHERE REAL ESTATE INC. REPORTS FOURTH QUARTER AND FULL YEAR 2024 FINANCIAL RESULTS"
date: "2025-02-13 20:30:00"
summary: "ANYWHERE REAL ESTATE INC. REPORTS FOURTH QUARTER AND FULL YEAR 2024 FINANCIAL RESULTSPR NewswireMADISON, N.J., Feb. 13, 2025MADISON, N.J., Feb. 13, 2025 /PRNewswire/ — Anywhere Real Estate Inc. (\"Anywhere\" or the \"Company\"), a global leader in residential real estate services, today reported financial results for the fourth quarter and full..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

ANYWHERE REAL ESTATE INC. REPORTS FOURTH QUARTER AND FULL YEAR 2024 FINANCIAL RESULTS

PR Newswire

MADISON, N.J., Feb. 13, 2025

MADISON, N.J., Feb. 13, 2025 /PRNewswire/ — Anywhere Real Estate Inc. ("Anywhere" or the "Company"), a global leader in residential real estate services, today reported financial results for the fourth quarter and full year ended December 31, 2024.

"Anywhere showed up as a leader in 2024, delivering industry-leading Operating EBITDA and seizing opportunities to invest in our strategy and accelerate growth while proactively navigating change," said Ryan Schneider, Anywhere president and CEO. "We are excited to leverage our competitive advantages in 2025, including building on our luxury leadership momentum, innovating with generative AI to deliver better experiences faster at lower costs, and capitalizing on our position of strength to deliver value for our stakeholders as we move real estate to what's next."

"In 2024, Anywhere overdelivered on cost savings and improved our capital structure despite a challenging housing market," said Charlotte Simonelli, Anywhere executive vice president, chief financial officer, and treasurer. "We continue to deliver meaningful results while positioning the business for even greater growth and financial octane as the market improves."

Effective December 31, 2024, the Company updated its definitions of Operating EBITDA and Adjusted net income (loss) to include adjustments for non-cash stock-based compensation and certain legal matters that conform with similar adjustments and measures disclosed by industry competitors. Reconciliations of Operating EBITDA and Adjusted net income (loss) to the most directly comparable GAAP measure are provided for all periods presented. See Table 9 for further discussion.

Fourth Quarter 2024 Highlights

* Generated Revenue of $1.4 billion, an increase of $112 million year-over-year.
* Reported Net Loss of $64 million, an improvement of $43 million. Adjusted Net Loss of $49 million improved $5 million versus 2023 (See Table 1a).
* Operating EBITDA of $52 million, up $24 million year-over-year (See Table 5a).
* Combined closed transaction volume increased 13% year-over-year with units up about 3% and price up 9%.
* Continued strength in luxury with Coldwell Banker Global Luxury, Corcoran, and Sotheby's International Realty brands significantly outperforming the market with closed transaction volume increasing nearly 20% year-over-year.
* Grew our high-margin franchise network by adding 28 franchisees in the fourth quarter of 2024.
* Agent commission splits of 80.3% in the fourth quarter were down 7 basis points year-over-year. It is the 11th straight quarter of stable commission splits at approximately 80%.
* The Company's preliminary January 2025 combined closed transaction volume was up approximately 12% year-over-year and January combined open transaction volume, which represents new contracts and future closings, was up approximately 4% year-over-year.

Full Year 2024 Highlights

* Generated Revenue of $5.7 billion, an increase of $56 million year-over-year.
* Reported Net Loss of $128 million, a decline of $31 million. Adjusted Net Loss of $78 million improved $4 million versus 2023 (See Table 1a).
* Operating EBITDA of $290 million, a $35 million increase year-over-year driven by higher operating margins as we continue to improve our cost structure (See Table 5b).
* Combined closed transaction volume increased 4% year-over-year with units down about 3% and price up 7%.
* Continued strength in luxury with Coldwell Banker Global Luxury, Corcoran, and Sotheby's International Realty brands significantly outperforming the market with closed transaction volume increasing nearly 10% year-over-year.
* Continued to lead the market in luxury homesales and expanded our luxury leadership with new locations worldwide and gained market share in the U.S.
* Grew our high-margin franchise network by adding 67 franchisees in 2024.
* Realized cost savings of approximately $125 million in 2024, exceeding our initial target by 25%.
* Agent commission splits of 80.3% on the full year increased 14 basis points year-over-year.
* Free Cash Flow of $50 million versus $67 million in 2023 (See Table 7). Free Cash Flow was $70 million before a $20 million litigation settlement payment made in the second quarter.
* Anywhere was recognized by Forbes as a World's Best Employer for the fourth consecutive year, in addition to continuing our consistent track record for 13 years as a World's Most Ethical Company and seven years as a Great Place to Work.

Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2024 Financial Highlights

The following tables set forth the Company's financial highlights for the periods presented (in millions, except per share data) (unaudited):

```
   
                                Three Months Ended December 31,   
                     2024               2023               Change        % Change   
               -----------------  -----------------  ------------------  --------   
Revenue           $        1,362     $        1,250     $           112       9 %   
Operating   
 EBITDA (1,   
 2)                           52                 28                  24        86   
Net loss   
 attributable   
 to Anywhere                (64)              (107)                  43        40   
Adjusted net   
 loss (1, 3)                (49)               (54)                   5         9   
Loss per   
 share                    (0.58)             (0.97)                0.39        40   
Free Cash   
 Flow (4)                     33               (13)                  46       354   
Net cash   
 provided by   
 operating   
 activities    $              67  $              62  $                5       8 %   
   
Select Key   
Drivers   
Anywhere   
Brands -   
Franchise   
Group (5, 6)   
Closed   
 homesale   
 sides                   171,609            165,815                           3 %   
Average   
 homesale   
 price              $    504,637       $    460,438                          10 %   
Anywhere   
Advisors -   
Owned   
Brokerage   
Group (6)   
Closed   
 homesale   
 sides                    59,388             57,546                           3 %   
Average   
 homesale   
 price              $    757,275       $    692,791                           9 %   
Anywhere   
Integrated   
Services -   
Title Group   
Purchase   
 title and   
 closing   
 units                    24,840             22,629                          10 %   
Refinance   
 title and   
 closing   
 units                     3,145              2,040                          54 %   
   
                                    Year Ended December 31,   
                     2024               2023               Change        % Change   
               -----------------  -----------------  ------------------  --------   
Revenue           $        5,692     $        5,636   $              56       1 %   
Operating   
 EBITDA (1,   
 2)                          290                255                  35        14   
Net loss   
 attributable   
 to Anywhere               (128)               (97)                (31)      (32)   
Adjusted net   
 loss (1, 3)                (78)               (82)                   4         5   
Loss per   
 share                    (1.15)             (0.88)              (0.27)      (31)   
Free Cash   
 Flow (4)                     50                 67                (17)      (25)   
Net cash   
 provided by   
 operating   
 activities      $           104    $           187   $            (83)    (44) %   
   
Select Key   
Drivers   
Anywhere   
Brands -   
Franchise   
Group (5, 6)   
Closed   
 homesale   
 sides                   700,589            720,853                         (3) %   
Average   
 homesale   
 price              $    497,494       $    462,277                           8 %   
Anywhere   
Advisors -   
Owned   
Brokerage   
Group (6)   
Closed   
 homesale   
 sides                   249,421            258,643                         (4) %   
Average   
 homesale   
 price              $    748,596       $    696,992                           7 %   
Anywhere   
Integrated   
Services -   
Title Group   
Purchase   
 title and   
 closing   
 units                   103,612            102,967                           1 %   
Refinance   
 title and   
 closing   
 units                    10,225              8,850                          16 %   
   
   
_______________   
Footnotes:   
(1) Effective December 31, 2024, the Company updated its definitions of   
Operating EBITDA and Adjusted net income (loss) to include adjustments for   
non-cash stock-based compensation and legal contingencies unrelated to normal   
operations which currently includes industry-wide antitrust lawsuits and class   
action lawsuits to conform with similar adjustments and measures disclosed by   
industry competitors. These changes have been applied retrospectively to prior   
periods to enhance comparability. The inclusion of these adjustments does not   
materially affect segment-level trends or conclusions previously disclosed.   
See Table 9 for further discussion.   
(2) See Tables 5a and 5b for a reconciliation of Net loss attributable to   
Anywhere to Operating EBITDA. Operating EBITDA is defined as net income (loss)   
adjusted for depreciation and amortization, interest expense, net (excluding   
relocation services interest for securitization assets and securitization   
obligations), income taxes, and certain non-core items. Non-core items include   
non-cash stock-based compensation, restructuring charges, impairments, former   
parent legacy items, legal contingencies unrelated to normal operations which   
currently includes industry-wide antitrust lawsuits and class action lawsuits,   
gains or losses on the early extinguishment of debt, and gains or losses on   
discontinued operations or the sale of businesses, investments or other   
assets.   
(3) See Table 1a for a reconciliation of Net loss attributable to Anywhere to   
Adjusted net loss. Adjusted net income (loss) is defined as net income (loss)   
before mark-to-market interest rate swap adjustments, non-cash stock-based   
compensation, restructuring charges, impairments, former parent legacy items,   
legal contingencies unrelated to normal operations which currently includes   
industry-wide antitrust lawsuits and class action lawsuits, (gain) loss on the   
early extinguishment of debt, (gain) loss on the sale of businesses,   
investments or other assets and the tax effect of the foregoing adjustments.   
(4) See Table 7 for a reconciliation of Net loss attributable to Anywhere to   
Free Cash Flow. Free Cash Flow is defined as net income (loss) attributable to   
Anywhere before income tax expense (benefit), income tax payments, net   
interest expense, cash interest payments, depreciation and amortization,   
capital expenditures, restructuring costs and former parent legacy costs   
(benefits), net of payments, impairments, (gain) loss on the sale of   
businesses, investments or other assets, (gain) loss on the early   
extinguishment of debt, working capital adjustments and relocation receivables   
(assets), net of change in securitization obligations.   
(5)  Includes all franchisees except for Owned Brokerage Group.   
(6) As of December 31, 2024, the Company's combined homesale transaction   
volume (transaction sides multiplied by average sale price) increased 13%   
compared with the fourth quarter of 2023 and increased 4% compared with the   
year ended December 31, 2023.   
 
```

2025 Financial Estimates

The Company expects to realize further cost savings of approximately $100 million in 2025, which we expect will be offset in part by inflationary pressures and investments as we look to make significant progress transforming our business.

The Company expects Operating EBITDA for full year 2025 to be about $350 million. The largest variable in this estimate is the performance of the housing market. The Company expects normal seasonal volumes throughout the year.

The Company expects its Free Cash Flow excluding one-time items to be similar to 2024. Free cash flow, like Operating EBITDA, is driven by the overall housing market and may be impacted by additional investments we make to drive growth and advance our technology strategy.

The one-time items are estimated to be approximately $115 million and consist of three items. First, the final $54 million payment towards our antitrust litigation settlement will be due when appeals are resolved, the timing of which is uncertain (but is not expected any earlier than mid-2025). Second, approximately $40 million for a 1999 Cendant legacy tax matter (due once statutory notice is received, which we have assumed will occur in 2025). Third, a $20 million payment for the January 2025 settlement of the Company's TCPA litigation, subject to preliminary and final court approval (with final court approval and payment estimated to occur in the third quarter of 2025).

These estimates are subject to, among other things, macroeconomic and housing market uncertainties, including those related to declining affordability, constrained inventory as well as the potential impact from the California wildfires, and competitive, litigation and regulatory uncertainties.

Balance Sheet

Total corporate debt, including the short-term portion, net of cash and cash equivalents (net corporate debt), totaled $2.4 billion at December 31, 2024. The Company ended the quarter with cash and cash equivalents of $118 million. The Company's Senior Secured Leverage Ratio was 1.22x at December 31, 2024 (see Table 8a). The Company's Net Debt Leverage Ratio was 7.2x at December 31, 2024 (see Table 8b).

As of February 12, 2025 the Company had $575 million of outstanding borrowings under its Revolving Credit Facility.

A consolidated balance sheet is included as Table 2 of this press release.

Investor Conference Call

Today, February 13, at 8:30 a.m. (ET), Anywhere will hold a conference call via webcast to review its fourth quarter and full year 2024 results and provide a business update. The webcast will be hosted by Ryan Schneider, chief executive officer and president, and Charlotte Simonelli, chief financial officer, and will conclude with an investor Q&A period with management.

To access the live webcast of the conference call or to view a replay, visit the company's investor relations website at https://ir.anywhere.re/.

The conference call can also be accessed by registering online at the Event Registration Page, at which time registrants will receive dial-in information as well as a conference ID. Registration can be completed in advance of the conference call.

About Anywhere Real Estate Inc.

Anywhere Real Estate Inc. is moving the real estate industry to what's next. A leader of integrated residential real estate services, Anywhere includes franchise, brokerage, relocation, and title and settlement businesses, as well as mortgage and title insurance underwriter minority owned joint ventures. The diverse Anywhere brand portfolio includes some of the most recognized names in real estate: Better Homes and Gardens(R) Real Estate, CENTURY 21(R), Coldwell Banker(R), Coldwell Banker Commercial(R), Corcoran(R), ERA(R), and Sotheby's International Realty(R). Using innovative technology, data and marketing products, high-quality lead generation programs, and best-in-class learning and support services, Anywhere fuels the productivity of its approximately 179,200 independent sales agents in the U.S. and approximately 132,700 independent sales agents in 118 other countries and territories, helping them build stronger businesses and best serve today's consumers. Recognized for 13 consecutive years as one of the World's Most Ethical Companies, Anywhere has also been designated a Great Place to Work seven years in a row, honored on the Forbes list of World's Best Employers for four years, named one of America's Most Innovative Companies by Fortune for two years, and featured by Newsweek as one of the World's Most Trustworthy Companies.

Forward-Looking Statements

This press release contains "forward-looking statements," within the meaning of the safe harbor provisions of the U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements can be identified by words such as: "believes", "expects", "anticipates", "intends", "projects", "estimates", "potential" and "plans" and similar expressions or future or conditional verbs such as "will", "should", "would", "may" and "could", and include statements that refer to expectations or other characterizations of future events, circumstances or results. Examples of forward-looking statements include the information appearing under 2025 Financial Estimates.

Forward-looking statements are neither historical facts nor assurances of future performance. Instead, they are based only on our current beliefs, expectations and assumptions regarding the future of our business, future plans and strategies, projections, anticipated events and trends, the economy and other future conditions. Such forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors which may cause the actual results, performance or achievements of Anywhere Real Estate Inc. to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements.

The following include some, but not all, of the factors that could affect our future results and cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements: downturns and disruptions in the residential real estate market, which could include, but are not limited to, factors that impact homesale transaction volume, such as: prolonged periods of a high mortgage rate and/or high inflation rate environment, continued or accelerated reductions in housing affordability, insufficient or excessive inventory and continued or accelerated declines, the absence of significant increases in the number of home sales, stagnant or declining home prices, or changes in consumer preferences in the U.S.; adverse developments or the absence of sustained improvement in macroeconomic conditions (such as business, economic or political conditions) on a global, domestic or local basis; changes to industry rules or practices that prohibit, restrict or adversely alter policies, practices, rules or regulations governing the functioning of the residential real estate market (regardless of whether such changes are driven by regulatory action, litigation outcomes, or otherwise); the impact of evolving competitive and consumer dynamics, including: meaningful decreases in the average broker commission rate, continued erosion of the Company's share of the commission income generated by homesale transactions, our ability to compete against traditional and non-traditional competitors, our ability to adapt our business to changing consumer preferences, or further disruption in the residential real estate brokerage industry related to listing aggregator market power and concentration; our ability to execute our business strategy, including with respect to our efforts to: recruit and retain productive independent sales agents, attract and retain franchisees or renew existing franchise agreements without reducing contractual royalty rates or increasing the amount and prevalence of sales incentives, develop or procure products, services and technology that support our strategic initiatives, successfully adopt and integrate artificial intelligence and similar technology into our products and services, or achieve or maintain cost savings and other benefits from our cost-saving initiatives; adverse developments or outcomes in large scale litigation, involving significant claims, such as antitrust litigation and litigation related to the Telephone Consumer Protection Act (TCPA); risks related to our substantial indebtedness, particularly heightened during industry downturns or broader recessions, which could adversely limit our operations, including our ability to grow our business, whether organically or via acquisitions, adversely impact our liquidity and/or adversely impact our ability, and any actions we may take, to refinance, restructure or repay our indebtedness; risks related to our business structure, including: the operating results of affiliated franchisees and their ability to pay franchise and related fees, continued consolidation among our top 250 franchisees, the geographic and high-end market concentration of our company owned brokerages, the loss of our largest real estate benefit program client or continued reduction in spending on relocation services, the failure of third-party vendors or partners to perform as expected or our failure to adequately monitor them, our ability to continue to securitize certain of the relocation assets of Cartus; our failure or alleged failure to comply with laws, regulations and regulatory interpretations and any changes or stricter interpretations of any of the foregoing, including but not limited to (1) antitrust laws and regulations, (2) the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act or other federal or state consumer protection or similar laws, (3) state or federal employment laws or regulations that would require reclassification of independent contractor sales agents to employee status, (4) the TCPA, and (5) privacy or cybersecurity laws and regulations; cybersecurity incidents; impacts from severe weather events, natural disasters and other catastrophic events, such as the wildfires recently impacting California; impairment of our goodwill and other long-lived assets; the accuracy of market forecasts and estimates; and significant fluctuation in the price of our common stock.

Consideration should be given to the areas of risk described above, as well as those risks set forth under the headings "Forward-Looking Statements," "Summary of Risk Factors," "Risk Factors" and "Legal Proceedings" in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the quarters ended March 31, 2024, June 30, 2024 and September 30, 2024, and our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2023, and our other filings made from time to time, in connection with considering any forward-looking statements that may be made by us and our businesses generally. We undertake no obligation to release publicly any revisions to any forward-looking statements, to report events or to report the occurrence of unanticipated events except as required by law.

Non-GAAP Financial Measures

This release includes certain non-GAAP financial measures as defined under SEC rules. As required by SEC rules, important information regarding such measures is contained in the Tables attached to this release. See Tables 8a, 8b and 9 for definitions of these non-GAAP financial measures and Tables 1a, 5a, 5b, 6a, 6b, 7, 8a and 8b for reconciliations of the historical non-GAAP financial measures to their most comparable GAAP terms.

Reconciliations of the Company's estimates of 2025 Operating EBITDA and full-year Free Cash Flow excluding one-time items, which are each non-GAAP financial measures, to estimated net income (loss) attributable to Anywhere are not provided because of the difficulty in forecasting and quantifying the items that would be necessary for such reconciliations. The Company also believes that providing estimates of the amounts that would be required to provide such reconciliations would imply a degree of precision that would be confusing or misleading to investors. These items are uncertain, depend on various factors and may have a material impact on GAAP results.

```
   
Investor Contacts:        Media Contacts:   
Alicia Swift              Trey Sarten   
(973) 407-4669            (973) 407-2162   
Alicia.Swift@anywhere.re  Trey.Sarten@anywhere.re   
   
Tim Swanson               Gabriella Chiera   
(973) 407-2612            (973) 407-5236   
Tim.Swanson@anywhere.re   Gabriella.Chiera@anywhere.re   
   
   
Table 1   
   
                               ANYWHERE REAL ESTATE INC.   
                          CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS   
                          (In millions, except per share data)   
   
                           Three Months Ended                     Year Ended   
                               December 31,                       December 31,   
                    ---------------------------------  ---------------------------------   
                          2024             2023             2024              2023   
                    ----------------  ---------------  ---------------  ----------------   
Revenues   
   Gross   
    commission   
    income            $        1,104   $        1,011   $        4,629    $        4,570   
   Service revenue               140              124              574               569   
   Franchise fees                 87               81              356               351   
   Other                          31               34              133               146   
                    ----------------  ---------------  ---------------  ----------------   
Net revenues                   1,362            1,250            5,692             5,636   
                    ----------------  ---------------  ---------------  ----------------   
Expenses   
   Commission and   
    other   
    agent-related   
    costs                        886              812            3,718             3,664   
   Operating                     280              278            1,125             1,147   
   Marketing                      52               54              195               215   
   General and   
    administrative                89               91              392               422   
   Former parent   
    legacy cost,   
    net                            1                1                2                18   
   Restructuring   
    costs, net                     8                9               32                49   
   Impairments                    11               54               20                65   
   Depreciation   
    and   
    amortization                  47               47              198               196   
   Interest   
    expense, net                  36               37              153               151   
   Gain on the   
    early   
    extinguishment   
    of debt                       --               --              (7)             (169)   
   Other expense   
    (income), net                  1              (1)               --                --   
                    ----------------  ---------------  ---------------  ----------------   
Total expenses                 1,411            1,382            5,828             5,758   
                    ----------------  ---------------  ---------------  ----------------   
Loss before income   
 taxes, equity in   
 losses (earnings)   
 and   
 noncontrolling   
 interests                      (49)            (132)            (136)             (122)   
Income tax expense   
 (benefit)                        13             (22)              (2)              (15)   
Equity in losses   
 (earnings) of   
 unconsolidated   
 entities                          1              (2)              (7)               (9)   
                    ----------------  ---------------  ---------------  ----------------   
Net loss                        (63)            (108)            (127)              (98)   
                    ----------------  ---------------  ---------------  ----------------   
Less: Net (income)   
 loss attributable   
 to noncontrolling   
 interests                       (1)                1              (1)                 1   
                    ----------------  ---------------  ---------------  ----------------   
Net loss   
 attributable to   
 Anywhere           $           (64)  $         (107)  $         (128)  $           (97)   
                    ================  ===============  ===============  ================   
   
Loss per share attributable to Anywhere shareholders:   
 Basic loss per   
  share              $        (0.58)  $        (0.97)  $        (1.15)   $        (0.88)   
 Diluted loss per   
  share              $        (0.58)  $        (0.97)  $        (1.15)   $        (0.88)   
Weighted average common and common equivalent shares of Anywhere outstanding:   
 Basic                         111.3            110.5            111.1             110.3   
 Diluted                       111.3            110.5            111.1             110.3   
   
   
Table 1a   
   
                                ANYWHERE REAL ESTATE INC.   
                                  NON-GAAP RECONCILIATION   
                                ADJUSTED NET INCOME (LOSS)   
                           (In millions, except per share data)   
   
Set forth in the table below is a reconciliation of Net loss attributable to Anywhere to   
Adjusted net loss as defined in Table 9 for the three-month periods and years ended   
December 31, 2024 and 2023:   
   
                            Three Months Ended                      Year Ended   
                               December 31,                         December 31,   
                    ----------------------------------  ----------------------------------   
                          2024              2023              2024              2023   
                    ----------------  ----------------  ----------------  ----------------   
Net loss   
 attributable to   
 Anywhere           $           (64)   $         (107)   $         (128)  $           (97)   
 Addback:   
   Stock-based   
    compensation   
    (a)                            5                --                17                12   
   Restructuring   
    costs, net   
    (b)                            8                 9                32                49   
   Impairments (c)                11                54                20                65   
   Former parent   
    legacy cost,   
    net (d)                        1                 1                 2                18   
   Legal   
    contingencies   
    (e)                          (8)                 9                 2                43   
   Gain on the   
    early   
    extinguishment   
    of debt (f)                   --                --               (7)             (169)   
   Loss on the   
    sale of   
    businesses,   
    investments or   
    other assets,   
    net                            3                --                 3                 2   
   Adjustments for   
    tax effect   
    (g)                          (5)              (20)              (19)               (5)   
                    ----------------  ----------------  ----------------  ----------------   
Adjusted net loss   
 attributable to   
 Anywhere           $           (49)  $           (54)  $           (78)  $           (82)   
                    ================  ================  ================  ================   
   
   
_______________   
(a)  Stock-based compensation is a non-cash expense that is based on grant   
     date fair value, which is influenced by the Company's stock price, and   
     recognized over the requisite service period.   
(b)  Restructuring costs are approximately half personnel-related, including   
     severance costs primarily to streamline finance and other administrative   
     functions, and half facility-related, including costs incurred to reduce   
     our brokerage operating model to align with the industry as well as our   
     Corporate headquarters footprint.   
(c)  Non-cash impairments in 2024 relate to leases and other assets. In 2023,   
     these relate to a $25 million impairment at Franchise Group to reduce   
     goodwill related to Cartus, a $25 million impairment of franchise   
     trademarks and impairments of leases and other assets.   
(d)  Former parent legacy items relate to a legacy tax matter.   
(e)  Legal contingencies do not include cases that are part of our normal   
     operating activities or legal expenses incurred in the ordinary course of   
     business. See Table 9 for further discussion.   
(f)  The gain on the early extinguishment of debt relates to the repurchases   
     of Unsecured Notes that occurred during the third quarter of 2024, as   
     well as the debt exchange transactions and open market repurchases that   
     occurred during the third quarter of 2023.   
(g)  Reflects tax effect of adjustments at the Company's blended state and   
     federal statutory rate.   
   
   
Table 2   
   
                         ANYWHERE REAL ESTATE INC.   
                         CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS   
                      (In millions, except share data)   
   
                                                     December 31,   
                                           ---------------------------------   
                                                2024              2023   
                                           ---------------  ----------------   
ASSETS   
Current assets:   
 Cash and cash equivalents                 $           118   $           106   
 Restricted cash                                         6                13   
 Trade receivables (net of allowance for   
  doubtful accounts of $17 and $18)                    101               105   
 Relocation receivables                                150               138   
 Other current assets                                  206               218   
                                           ---------------  ----------------   
     Total current assets                              581               580   
Property and equipment, net                            247               280   
Operating lease assets, net                            331               380   
Goodwill                                             2,499             2,499   
Trademarks                                             584               586   
Franchise agreements, net                              821               887   
Other intangibles, net                                 106               127   
Other non-current assets                               467               500   
                                           ---------------  ----------------   
Total assets                                $        5,636     $       5,839   
                                           ===============  ================   
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY   
Current liabilities:   
 Accounts payable                          $           101  $             99   
 Securitization obligations                            140               115   
 Current portion of long-term debt                     490               307   
 Current portion of operating lease   
  liabilities                                          105               113   
 Accrued expenses and other current   
  liabilities                                          553               573   
                                           ---------------  ----------------   
     Total current liabilities                       1,389             1,207   
Long-term debt                                       2,031             2,235   
Long-term operating lease liabilities                  284               333   
Deferred income taxes                                  207               207   
Other non-current liabilities                          155               176   
                                           ---------------  ----------------   
Total liabilities                                    4,066             4,158   
                                           ---------------  ----------------   
Commitments and contingencies   
Equity:   
 Anywhere preferred stock: $0.01 par   
 value; 50,000,000 shares authorized,   
 none issued and outstanding at   
 December 31, 2024 and December 31, 2023                --                --   
 Anywhere common stock: $0.01 par value;   
  400,000,000 shares authorized,   
  111,261,825 shares issued and   
  outstanding at December 31, 2024 and   
  110,488,093 shares issued and   
  outstanding at December 31, 2023                       1                 1   
 Additional paid-in capital                          4,827             4,813   
 Accumulated deficit                               (3,219)           (3,091)   
 Accumulated other comprehensive loss                 (42)              (44)   
                                           ---------------  ----------------   
     Total stockholders' equity                      1,567             1,679   
                                           ---------------  ----------------   
 Noncontrolling interests                                3                 2   
                                           ---------------  ----------------   
Total equity                                         1,570             1,681   
                                           ---------------  ----------------   
Total liabilities and equity                $        5,636     $       5,839   
                                           ===============  ================   
   
   
Table 3   
   
                         ANYWHERE REAL ESTATE INC.   
                    CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS   
                                (In millions)   
   
                                           Year Ended December 31,   
                                  ------------------------------------------   
                                          2024                  2023   
                                  --------------------  --------------------   
Operating Activities   
Net loss                          $              (127)  $               (98)   
Adjustments to reconcile net loss to net cash provided   
by operating activities:   
 Depreciation and amortization                     198                   196   
 Deferred income taxes                             (2)                  (33)   
 Impairments                                        20                    65   
 Amortization of deferred   
  financing costs and debt   
  premium                                            8                     8   
 Gain on the early   
  extinguishment of debt                           (7)                 (169)   
 Loss on the sale of businesses,   
  investments or other assets,   
  net                                                3                     2   
 Equity in earnings of   
  unconsolidated entities                          (7)                   (9)   
 Stock-based compensation                           17                    12   
 Other adjustments to net loss                     (2)                   (6)   
 Net change in assets and liabilities, excluding the impact of acquisitions   
 and dispositions:   
     Trade receivables                               4                    97   
     Relocation receivables                       (12)                    72   
     Other assets                                   93                   105   
     Accounts payable, accrued   
      expenses and other   
      liabilities                                 (65)                  (47)   
Dividends received from   
 unconsolidated entities                             3                     8   
Other, net                                        (20)                  (16)   
                                  --------------------  --------------------   
Net cash provided by operating   
 activities                                        104                   187   
                                  --------------------  --------------------   
Investing Activities   
Property and equipment additions                  (78)                  (72)   
Payments for acquisitions, net   
 of cash acquired                                   --                   (1)   
Net proceeds from the sale of   
 businesses                                         --                     8   
Investment in unconsolidated   
 entities                                           --                   (1)   
Proceeds from the sale of   
 investments in unconsolidated   
 entities                                           --                     6   
Other, net                                           1                     1   
                                  --------------------  --------------------   
Net cash used in investing   
 activities                                       (77)                  (59)   
                                  --------------------  --------------------   
Financing Activities   
Net change in Revolving Credit   
 Facility                                          205                  (65)   
Repayment of Term Loan A   
Facility                                         (194)                    --   
Proceeds from issuance of Senior   
 Secured Second Lien Notes                          --                   640   
Repurchases and redemption of   
 Senior Notes                                     (19)                 (688)   
Amortization payments on term   
 loan facilities                                  (12)                  (16)   
Net change in securitization   
 obligations                                        25                  (48)   
Debt issuance costs                                 --                  (13)   
Cash paid for fees associated   
 with early extinguishment of   
 debt                                               --                   (2)   
Taxes paid related to net share   
 settlement for stock-based   
 compensation                                      (3)                   (4)   
Other, net                                        (23)                  (31)   
                                  --------------------  --------------------   
Net cash used in financing   
 activities                                       (21)                 (227)   
                                  --------------------  --------------------   
Effect of changes in exchange   
rates on cash, cash equivalents   
and restricted cash                                (1)                    --   
                                  --------------------  --------------------   
Net increase (decrease) in cash,   
 cash equivalents and restricted   
 cash                                                5                  (99)   
Cash, cash equivalents and   
 restricted cash, beginning of   
 period                                            119                   218   
                                  --------------------  --------------------   
Cash, cash equivalents and   
 restricted cash, end of period   $                124    $              119   
                                  ====================  ====================   
   
Supplemental Disclosure of Cash   
Flow Information   
Interest payments (including   
 securitization interest of $10   
 and $12 respectively)            $                158    $              168   
Income tax payments, net                             1                    14   
   
   
Table 4a   
   
                            ANYWHERE REAL ESTATE INC.   
                                 2024 KEY DRIVERS   
   
                                 Quarter Ended                        Year Ended   
             ------------------------------------------------------  ------------   
              March 31,      June 30,     September    December 31,  December 31,   
                 2024          2024        30, 2024        2024          2024   
             ------------  ------------  ------------  ------------  ------------   
Anywhere   
Brands -   
Franchise   
Group (a)   
Closed   
 homesale   
 sides            144,775       194,372       189,833       171,609       700,589   
Average   
 homesale   
 price          $ 470,119     $ 506,676     $ 502,512     $ 504,637     $ 497,494   
Average   
 homesale   
 broker   
 commission   
 rate              2.43 %        2.42 %        2.41 %        2.39 %        2.41 %   
Net royalty   
 per side    $        417  $        462  $        456  $        446  $        447   
Anywhere   
Advisors -   
Owned   
Brokerage   
Group   
Closed   
 homesale   
 sides             50,513        71,895        67,625        59,388       249,421   
Average   
 homesale   
 price          $ 709,506     $ 775,453     $ 741,623     $ 757,275     $ 748,596   
Average   
 homesale   
 broker   
 commission   
 rate              2.41 %        2.36 %        2.36 %        2.35 %        2.37 %   
Gross   
 commission   
 income per   
 side           $  17,946     $  19,141     $  18,376     $  18,577     $  18,557   
Anywhere   
Integrated   
Services -   
Title   
Group   
Purchase   
 title and   
 closing   
 units             21,325        29,816        27,631        24,840       103,612   
Refinance   
 title and   
 closing   
 units              2,025         2,394         2,661         3,145        10,225   
Average fee   
 per   
 closing   
 unit          $    3,208    $    3,323    $    3,361    $    3,428    $    3,341   
   
   
_______________   
(a) Includes all franchisees except for Owned Brokerage Group.   
   
   
Table 4b   
   
                            ANYWHERE REAL ESTATE INC.   
                                 2023 KEY DRIVERS   
   
                                 Quarter Ended                        Year Ended   
                                                                     ------------   
              March 31,      June 30,     September    December 31,  December 31,   
                 2023          2023        30, 2023        2023          2023   
             ------------  ------------  ------------  ------------  ------------   
Anywhere   
Brands -   
Franchise   
Group (a)   
Closed   
 homesale   
 sides            150,491       203,928       200,619       165,815       720,853   
Average   
 homesale   
 price          $ 437,964     $ 473,312     $ 470,818     $ 460,438     $ 462,277   
Average   
 homesale   
 broker   
 commission   
 rate              2.46 %        2.46 %        2.45 %        2.45 %        2.45 %   
Net royalty   
 per side    $        392  $        451  $        442  $        429  $        431   
Anywhere   
Advisors -   
Owned   
Brokerage   
Group   
Closed   
 homesale   
 sides             53,797        75,506        71,794        57,546       258,643   
Average   
 homesale   
 price          $ 663,223     $ 709,764     $ 712,232     $ 692,791     $ 696,992   
Average   
 homesale   
 broker   
 commission   
 rate              2.41 %        2.43 %        2.41 %        2.42 %        2.42 %   
Gross   
 commission   
 income per   
 side           $  16,776     $  18,059     $  18,013     $  17,558     $  17,668   
Anywhere   
Integrated   
Services -   
Title   
Group   
Purchase   
 title and   
 closing   
 units             21,749        30,136        28,453        22,629       102,967   
Refinance   
 title and   
 closing   
 units              2,198         2,308         2,304         2,040         8,850   
Average fee   
 per   
 closing   
 unit          $    3,129    $    3,202    $    3,187    $    3,216    $    3,185   
   
   
_______________   
(a) Includes all franchisees except for Owned Brokerage Group.   
   
   
Table 5a   
   
                         ANYWHERE REAL ESTATE INC.   
                 NON-GAAP RECONCILIATION - OPERATING EBITDA   
                THREE MONTHS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2024 AND 2023   
                                (In millions)   
   
Set forth in the table below is a reconciliation of Net loss attributable to   
Anywhere to Operating EBITDA as defined in Table 9 for the three-month   
periods ended December 31, 2024 and 2023:   
   
                                  Three Months Ended December 31,   
                                  2024                       2023   
                        -------------------------  -------------------------   
Net loss attributable   
 to Anywhere            $                    (64)   $                  (107)   
Income tax expense   
 (benefit)                                     13                       (22)   
                        -------------------------  -------------------------   
Loss before income   
 taxes                                       (51)                      (129)   
Add: Depreciation and   
 amortization                                  47                         47   
     Interest expense,   
      net                                      36                         37   
     Stock-based   
     compensation (a)                           5                         --   
     Restructuring   
      costs, net (b)                            8                          9   
     Impairments (c)                           11                         54   
     Former parent   
      legacy cost, net   
      (d)                                       1                          1   
     Legal   
      contingencies   
      (e)                                     (8)                          9   
     Loss on the sale   
     of businesses,   
     investments or   
     other assets,   
     net                                        3                         --   
                        -------------------------  -------------------------   
Operating EBITDA        $                      52  $                      28   
                        =========================  =========================   
   
   
_______________   
(a)  Stock-based compensation is a non-cash expense that is based on grant   
     date fair value, which is influenced by the Company's stock price, and   
     recognized over the requisite service period. This expense is primarily   
     related to Corporate and Other.   
(b)  Restructuring costs are approximately half personnel-related, including   
     severance costs primarily to streamline finance and other administrative   
     functions, and half facility-related, including costs incurred to reduce   
     our brokerage operating model to align with the industry as well as our   
     Corporate headquarters footprint.   
     Restructuring charges incurred for the three months ended December 31,   
     2024 include $5 million at Owned Brokerage Group and $3 million in   
     Corporate and Other. Restructuring charges incurred for the three months   
     ended December 31, 2023 include $3 million at Franchise Group, $2 million   
     at Owned Brokerage Group, $2 million at Title Group and $2 million in   
     Corporate and Other.   
(c)  Non-cash impairments for the three months ended December 31, 2024   
     primarily related to leases and other assets. Non-cash impairments for   
     the three months ended December 31, 2023 include $25 million at Franchise   
     Group to reduce goodwill related to Cartus, $25 million related to   
     franchise trademarks and $4 million of other impairment charges related   
     to leases and other assets.   
(d)  Former parent legacy items are recorded in Corporate and Other.   
(e)  Legal contingencies do not include cases that are part of our normal   
     operating activities or legal expenses incurred in the ordinary course of   
     business. See Table 9 for further discussion.   
   
   
The following table reflects Revenue, Operating EBITDA and Operating EBITDA   
margin, both as defined in Table 9, for each of the Company's reportable   
segments and Corporate and Other:   
   
   
                                                                                       Operating   
              Revenues (b)                      Operating EBITDA                     EBITDA Margin   
            ----------------  --------  ------  -----------------  -------  ------  ---------------  ------   
                                 $        %                           $       %   
             2024     2023     Change   Change   2024      2023     Change  Change  2024    2023     Change   
            -------  -------  --------  ------  -------  --------  -------  ------  ----  ---------  ------   
Franchise   
 Group        $ 229    $ 221  $      8   4 %      $ 121     $ 110  $    11   10 %   53 %       50 %       3   
Owned   
 Brokerage   
 Group        1,118    1,024        94    9        (27)      (43)       16    37     (2)        (4)       2   
Title   
 Group           92       75        17    23        (9)      (12)        3    25    (10)       (16)       6   
Corporate   
 and Other   
 (a)           (77)     (70)       (7)   (b)       (33)      (27)      (6)   (22)   
            -------  -------  --------          -------  --------  -------   
Total   
 Company    $ 1,362  $ 1,250    $  112   9 %    $    52   $    28  $    24   86 %    4 %        2 %       2   
            =======  =======  ========          =======  ========  =======   
   
   
_______________   
(a)  Corporate and Other includes the Company's intersegment revenues which   
     are eliminated and various unallocated corporate expenses.   
(b)  Revenues include the elimination of transactions between segments, which   
     consists of intercompany royalties and marketing fees paid by Owned   
     Brokerage Group of $77 million and $70 million during the three months   
     ended December 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively, and are eliminated in the   
     Corporate and Other line.   
   
   
Table 5b   
   
                         ANYWHERE REAL ESTATE INC.   
                 NON-GAAP RECONCILIATION - OPERATING EBITDA   
               FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2024 AND 2023   
                                (In millions)   
   
Set forth in the table below is a reconciliation of Net loss attributable to   
Anywhere to Operating EBITDA as defined in Table 9 for the years ended   
December 31, 2024 and 2023:   
   
                                       Year Ended December 31,   
                                   2024                      2023   
                         ------------------------  -------------------------   
Net loss attributable   
 to Anywhere             $                  (128)  $                    (97)   
Income tax benefit                            (2)                       (15)   
                         ------------------------  -------------------------   
Loss before income   
 taxes                                      (130)                      (112)   
Add: Depreciation and   
 amortization                                 198                        196   
     Interest expense,   
      net                                     153                        151   
     Stock-based   
      compensation (a)                         17                         12   
     Restructuring   
      costs, net (b)                           32                         49   
     Impairments (c)                           20                         65   
     Former parent   
      legacy cost, net   
      (d)                                       2                         18   
     Legal   
      contingencies   
      (e)                                       2                         43   
     Gain on the early   
      extinguishment of   
      debt (f)                                (7)                      (169)   
     Loss on the sale   
      of businesses,   
      investments or   
      other assets,   
      net                                       3                          2   
                         ------------------------  -------------------------   
Operating EBITDA         $                    290   $                    255   
                         ========================  =========================   
   
   
_______________   
(a)  Stock-based compensation is a non-cash expense that is based on grant   
     date fair value, which is influenced by the Company's stock price, and   
     recognized over the requisite service period. This expense is primarily   
     related to Corporate and Other.   
(b)  Restructuring costs are approximately half personnel-related, including   
     severance costs primarily to streamline finance and other administrative   
     functions, and half facility-related, including costs incurred to reduce   
     our brokerage operating model to align with the industry as well as our   
     Corporate headquarters footprint.   
     Restructuring charges incurred for the year ended December 31, 2024   
     include $4 million at Franchise Group, $15 million at Owned Brokerage   
     Group, $1 million at Title Group and $12 million in Corporate and Other.   
     Restructuring charges incurred for the year ended December 31, 2023   
     include $11 million at Franchise Group, $25 million at Owned Brokerage   
     Group, $4 million at Title Group and $9 million in Corporate and Other.   
(c)  Non-cash impairments for the year ended December 31, 2024 primarily   
     related to leases and other assets. Non-cash impairments for the year   
     ended December 31, 2023 include $25 million at Franchise Group to reduce   
     goodwill related to Cartus, $25 million related to franchise trademarks   
     and $15 million related to leases and other assets.   
(d)  Former parent legacy items are recorded in Corporate and Other and relate   
     to a legacy tax matter.   
(e)  Legal contingencies do not include cases that are part of our normal   
     operating activities or legal expenses incurred in the ordinary course of   
     business. See Table 9 for further discussion. Includes $2 million in   
     Corporate and Other for the year ended December 31, 2024 and $34 million   
     and $9 million in Corporate and Other and Brokerage Group, respectively,   
     for the year ended December 31, 2023.   
(f)  Gain on the early extinguishment of debt is recorded in Corporate and   
     Other. The gain on the early extinguishment of debt relates to the   
     repurchases of Unsecured Notes that occurred during the third quarter of   
     2024, as well as the debt exchange transactions and open market   
     repurchases that occurred during the third quarter of 2023.   
   
   
The following table reflects Revenue, Operating EBITDA and Operating EBITDA   
margin, both as defined in Table 9, for each of the Company's reportable   
segments and Corporate and Other:   
   
   
                                                    Operating                          Operating   
              Revenues (b)                           EBITDA                          EBITDA Margin   
            ----------------  ---------  ------  ---------------  --------  ------  ---------------  ------   
                                  $        %                         $        %   
               2024     2023    Change   Change  2024       2023   Change   Change  2024    2023     Change   
            -------  -------  ---------  ------  -----  --------  --------  ------  ----  ---------  ------   
Franchise   
 Group        $ 961    $ 983  $    (22)  (2) %   $ 521     $ 527  $    (6)  (1) %   54 %       54 %      --   
Owned   
 Brokerage   
 Group        4,688    4,628         60    1      (93)     (135)        42    31     (2)        (3)       1   
Title   
 Group          362      340         22    6      (13)      (16)         3    19     (4)        (5)       1   
Corporate   
 and Other   
 (a)          (319)    (315)        (4)   (b)    (125)     (121)       (4)   (3)   
            -------  -------  ---------          -----  --------  --------   
Total   
 Company    $ 5,692  $ 5,636  $      56   1 %    $ 290     $ 255   $    35   14 %    5 %        5 %      --   
            =======  =======  =========          =====  ========  ========   
   
   
_______________   
(a)  Corporate and Other includes the Company's intersegment revenues which   
     are eliminated and various unallocated corporate expenses.   
(b)  Revenues include the elimination of transactions between segments, which   
     consists of intercompany royalties and marketing fees paid by Owned   
     Brokerage Group of $319 million and $315 million during the years ended   
     December 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively, and are eliminated in the   
     Corporate and Other line.   
   
   
Table 6a   
   
                                            ANYWHERE REAL ESTATE INC.   
                                           SELECTED 2024 FINANCIAL DATA   
                                                   (In millions)   
   
                                                  Three Months Ended                                 Year Ended   
                      --------------------------------------------------------------------------  ----------------   
                         March 31,          June 30,         September 30,       December 31,       December 31,   
                            2024              2024               2024                2024               2024   
                      ----------------  ----------------  -------------------  -----------------  ----------------   
Net revenues (a)   
Franchise Group        $           200   $           265    $             267   $            229  $            961   
Owned Brokerage   
 Group                             919             1,393                1,258              1,118             4,688   
Title Group                         71               103                   96                 92               362   
Corporate and Other   
 (b)                              (64)              (92)                 (86)               (77)             (319)   
                      ----------------  ----------------  -------------------  -----------------  ----------------   
   Total Company        $        1,126    $        1,669     $          1,535    $         1,362   $         5,692   
                      ================  ================  ===================  =================  ================   
   
Operating EBITDA   
Franchise Group       $             90   $           159    $             151   $            121  $            521   
Owned Brokerage   
 Group                            (59)                 4                 (11)               (27)              (93)   
Title Group                       (15)                 9                    2                (9)              (13)   
Corporate and Other   
 (b)                              (29)              (29)                 (34)               (33)             (125)   
                      ----------------  ----------------  -------------------  -----------------  ----------------   
   Total Company      $           (13)   $           143    $             108  $              52  $            290   
                      ----------------  ----------------  -------------------  -----------------  ----------------   
   
Non-GAAP   
Reconciliation -   
Operating EBITDA   
Total Company   
 Operating EBITDA     $           (13)   $           143    $             108  $              52  $            290   
   
Less:  Depreciation   
 and amortization                   55                48                   48                 47               198   
     Interest   
      expense, net                  39                40                   38                 36               153   
     Income tax   
      (benefit)   
      expense                     (28)                11                    2                 13               (2)   
     Stock-based   
      compensation   
      (c)                            4                 4                    4                  5                17   
     Restructuring   
      costs, net   
      (d)                           11                 7                    6                  8                32   
     Impairments (e)                 6                 2                    1                 11                20   
     Former parent   
      legacy cost   
      (benefit), net   
      (f)                            1                 1                  (1)                  1                 2   
     Legal   
      contingencies   
      (g)                           --                --                   10                (8)                 2   
     Gain on the   
      early   
      extinguishment   
      of debt (f)                   --                --                  (7)                 --               (7)   
     Loss on the   
      sale of   
      businesses,   
      investments or   
      other assets,   
      net                           --                --                   --                  3                 3   
                      ----------------  ----------------  -------------------  -----------------  ----------------   
Net (loss) income   
 attributable to   
 Anywhere              $         (101)  $             30  $                 7  $            (64)  $          (128)   
                      ================  ================  ===================  =================  ================   
   
   
_______________   
(a)  Transactions between segments are eliminated in consolidation. Revenues   
     for Franchise Group include intercompany royalties and marketing fees   
     paid by Owned Brokerage Group of $64 million, $92 million, $86 million   
     and $77 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024, June 30, 2024,   
     September 30, 2024 and December 31, 2024, respectively. Such amounts are   
     eliminated in the Corporate and Other line.   
(b)  Corporate and Other includes the Company's intersegment revenues which   
     are eliminated and various unallocated corporate expenses.   
(c)  Stock-based compensation is a non-cash expense that is based on grant   
     date fair value, which is influenced by the Company's stock price, and   
     recognized over the requisite service period.   
(d)  Includes restructuring charges broken down by business unit as follows:   
   
   
                                           Three Months Ended                                    Year Ended   
                                                                                             ------------------   
                 March 31,          June 30,          September 30,        December 31,         December 31,   
                   2024               2024                2024                 2024                 2024   
             -----------------  -----------------  -------------------  -------------------  ------------------   
Franchise   
 Group       $               1  $               2  $                 1   $               --  $                4   
Owned   
 Brokerage   
 Group                       6                  1                    3                    5                  15   
Title Group                 --                  1                   --                   --                   1   
Corporate   
 and Other                   4                  3                    2                    3                  12   
             -----------------  -----------------  -------------------  -------------------  ------------------   
   Total   
    Company   $             11  $               7  $                 6  $                 8   $              32   
             =================  =================  ===================  ===================  ==================   
   
   
   
(e)  Non-cash impairments primarily related to leases and other assets.   
(f)  Former parent legacy items are recorded in Corporate and Other and relate   
     to a legacy tax matter.   
(g)  Legal contingencies do not include cases that are part of our normal   
     operating activities or legal expenses incurred in the ordinary course of   
     business. See Table 9 for further discussion.   
(h)  Gain on the early extinguishment of debt is recorded in Corporate and   
     Other and relates to the repurchases of Unsecured Notes.   
   
   
Table 6b   
   
                                               ANYWHERE REAL ESTATE INC.   
                                              SELECTED 2023 FINANCIAL DATA   
                                                     (In millions)   
   
                                                   Three Months Ended                                    Year Ended   
                      -----------------------------------------------------------------------------  ------------------   
                          March 31,            June 30,         September 30,       December 31,        December 31,   
                             2023                2023               2023                2023                2023   
                      ------------------  ------------------  -----------------  ------------------  ------------------   
Net revenues (a)   
Franchise Group        $             207   $             284  $             271   $             221   $             983   
Owned Brokerage   
 Group                               915               1,380              1,309               1,024               4,628   
Title Group                           72                 100                 93                  75                 340   
Corporate and Other   
 (b)                                (63)                (93)               (89)                (70)               (315)   
                      ------------------  ------------------  -----------------  ------------------  ------------------   
   Total Company        $          1,131    $          1,671   $          1,584    $          1,250    $          5,636   
                      ==================  ==================  =================  ==================  ==================   
   
Operating EBITDA   
Franchise Group       $               97   $             164  $             156   $             110   $             527   
Owned Brokerage   
 Group                              (74)                (11)                (7)                (43)               (135)   
Title Group                         (17)                  10                  3                (12)                (16)   
Corporate and Other   
 (b)                                (30)                (32)               (32)                (27)               (121)   
                      ------------------  ------------------  -----------------  ------------------  ------------------   
   Total Company      $             (24)   $             131  $             120  $               28   $             255   
                      ------------------  ------------------  -----------------  ------------------  ------------------   
   
Non-GAAP   
Reconciliation -   
Operating EBITDA   
Total Company   
 Operating EBITDA     $             (24)   $             131  $             120  $               28   $             255   
   
Less:  Depreciation   
 and amortization                     50                  49                 50                  47                 196   
     Interest   
      expense, net                    38                  39                 37                  37                 151   
     Income tax   
      (benefit)   
      expense                       (46)                   8                 45                (22)                (15)   
     Stock-based   
      compensation   
      (c)                              4                   4                  4                  --                  12   
     Restructuring   
      costs, net   
      (d)                             25                   6                  9                   9                  49   
     Impairments (e)                   4                   4                  3                  54                  65   
     Former parent   
      legacy cost,   
      net (f)                         16                   1                 --                   1                  18   
     Legal   
      contingencies   
      (g)                             24                   1                  9                   9                  43   
     Gain on the   
      early   
      extinguishment   
      of debt (h)                     --                  --              (169)                  --               (169)   
     (Gain) loss on   
      the sale of   
      businesses,   
      investments or   
      other assets,   
      net                            (1)                  --                  3                  --                   2   
                      ------------------  ------------------  -----------------  ------------------  ------------------   
Net (loss) income   
 attributable to   
 Anywhere              $           (138)  $               19  $             129   $           (107)  $             (97)   
                      ==================  ==================  =================  ==================  ==================   
   
   
_______________   
(a)  Transactions between segments are eliminated in consolidation. Revenues   
     for Franchise Group include intercompany royalties and marketing fees   
     paid by Owned Brokerage Group of $63 million, $93 million, $89 million   
     and $70 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023, June 30, 2023,   
     September 30, 2023 and December 31, 2023, respectively. Such amounts are   
     eliminated in the Corporate and Other line.   
(b)  Corporate and Other includes the Company's intersegment revenues which   
     are eliminated and various unallocated corporate expenses.   
(c)  Stock-based compensation is a non-cash expense that is based on grant   
     date fair value, which is influenced by the Company's stock price, and   
     recognized over the requisite service period.   
(d)  Includes restructuring charges broken down by business unit as follows:   
   
   
   
                                             Three Months Ended                                      Year Ended   
             ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------  ------------------   
                  March 31,            June 30,           September 30,        December 31,         December 31,   
                    2023                 2023                 2023                 2023                 2023   
             -------------------  -------------------  -------------------  -------------------  ------------------   
Franchise   
 Group       $                 6   $               --  $                 2  $                 3  $               11   
Owned   
 Brokerage   
 Group                        14                    4                    5                    2                  25   
Title Group                   --                    1                    1                    2                   4   
Corporate   
 and Other                     5                    1                    1                    2                   9   
             -------------------  -------------------  -------------------  -------------------  ------------------   
   Total   
    Company   $               25  $                 6  $                 9  $                 9  $               49   
             ===================  ===================  ===================  ===================  ==================   
   
   
(e)  Impairments for the three months ended March 31, 2023, June 30 2023 and   
     September 30, 2023 primarily relate to non-cash lease asset impairments.   
     Non-cash impairments for the three months ended December 31, 2023 include   
     $25 million at Franchise Group to reduce goodwill related to Cartus, $25   
     million related to franchise trademarks and $4 million related to leases   
     and other assets.   
(f)  Former parent legacy costs are recorded in Corporate and Other and relate   
     to a legacy tax matter.   
(g)  Legal contingencies do not include cases that are part of our normal   
     operating activities or legal expenses incurred in the ordinary course of   
     business. See Table 9 for further discussion.   
(h)  Gain on the early extinguishment of debt is recorded in Corporate and   
     Other and relates to the debt exchange transactions and open market   
     repurchases that occurred during the third quarter of 2023.   
   
   
Table 6c   
   
                                  ANYWHERE REAL ESTATE INC.   
                          2024 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS   
                             (In millions, except per share data)   
   
                                       Three Months Ended                        Year Ended   
                    ---------------------------------------------------------  ---------------   
                    March 31,  June 30,    September 30,       December 31,     December 31,   
                      2024       2024           2024               2024             2024   
                    ---------  --------  ------------------  ----------------  ---------------   
Revenues   
   Gross   
    commission   
    income          $     907   $ 1,376      $        1,242     $       1,104    $       4,629   
   Service revenue        119       159                 156               140              574   
   Franchise fees          70       101                  98                87              356   
   Other                   30        33                  39                31              133   
                    ---------  --------  ------------------  ----------------  ---------------   
Net revenues            1,126     1,669               1,535             1,362            5,692   
                    ---------  --------  ------------------  ----------------  ---------------   
Expenses   
   Commission and   
    other   
    agent-related   
    costs                 726     1,108                 998               886            3,718   
   Operating              273       285                 287               280            1,125   
   Marketing               45        47                  51                52              195   
   General and   
    administrative         99        93                 111                89              392   
   Former parent   
    legacy cost   
    (benefit),   
    net                     1         1                 (1)                 1                2   
   Restructuring   
    costs, net             11         7                   6                 8               32   
   Impairments              6         2                   1                11               20   
   Depreciation   
    and   
    amortization           55        48                  48                47              198   
   Interest   
    expense, net           39        40                  38                36              153   
   Gain on the   
    early   
    extinguishment   
    of debt                --        --                 (7)                --              (7)   
   Other (income)   
    expense, net          (1)        --                  --                 1               --   
                    ---------  --------  ------------------  ----------------  ---------------   
Total expenses          1,254     1,631               1,532             1,411            5,828   
                    ---------  --------  ------------------  ----------------  ---------------   
(Loss) income   
 before income   
 taxes, equity in   
 losses (earnings)   
 and   
 noncontrolling   
 interests              (128)        38                   3              (49)            (136)   
Income tax   
 (benefit)   
 expense                 (28)        11                   2                13              (2)   
Equity in losses   
 (earnings) of   
 unconsolidated   
 entities                   1       (3)                 (6)                 1              (7)   
                    ---------  --------  ------------------  ----------------  ---------------   
Net (loss) income       (101)        30                   7              (63)            (127)   
                    ---------  --------  ------------------  ----------------  ---------------   
Less: Net income   
 attributable to   
 noncontrolling   
 interests                 --        --                  --               (1)              (1)   
                    ---------  --------  ------------------  ----------------  ---------------   
Net (loss) income   
 attributable to   
 Anywhere           $   (101)  $     30  $                7  $           (64)  $         (128)   
                    =========  ========  ==================  ================  ===============   
   
(Loss) earnings per share attributable to Anywhere shareholders:   
   Basic (loss)   
    earnings per   
    share           $  (0.91)   $  0.27     $          0.06   $        (0.58)  $        (1.15)   
   Diluted (loss)   
    earnings per   
    share           $  (0.91)   $  0.27     $          0.06   $        (0.58)  $        (1.15)   
Weighted average common and common equivalent shares of Anywhere outstanding:   
   Basic                110.7     111.2               111.3             111.3            111.1   
   Diluted              110.7     111.9               112.2             111.3            111.1   
   
   
Table 6d   
   
                                 ANYWHERE REAL ESTATE INC.   
                         2023 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS   
                            (In millions, except per share data)   
   
                                     Three Months Ended                       Year Ended   
                    -----------------------------------------------------  ----------------   
                    March 31,  June 30,   September 30,    December 31,      December 31,   
                      2023       2023         2023             2023              2023   
                    ---------  --------  ---------------  ---------------  ----------------   
Revenues   
   Gross   
    commission   
    income          $     903   $ 1,363   $        1,293    $       1,011     $       4,570   
   Service revenue        127       163              155              124               569   
   Franchise fees          69       102               99               81               351   
   Other                   32        43               37               34               146   
                    ---------  --------  ---------------  ---------------  ----------------   
Net revenues            1,131     1,671            1,584            1,250             5,636   
                    ---------  --------  ---------------  ---------------  ----------------   
Expenses   
   Commission and   
    other   
    agent-related   
    costs                 723     1,092            1,037              812             3,664   
   Operating              286       299              284              278             1,147   
   Marketing               49        56               56               54               215   
   General and   
    administrative        123       104              104               91               422   
   Former parent   
    legacy cost,   
    net                    16         1               --                1                18   
   Restructuring   
    costs, net             25         6                9                9                49   
   Impairments              4         4                3               54                65   
   Depreciation   
    and   
    amortization           50        49               50               47               196   
   Interest   
    expense, net           38        39               37               37               151   
   Gain on the   
    early   
    extinguishment   
    of debt                --        --            (169)               --             (169)   
   Other (income)   
    expense, net          (1)       (1)                3              (1)                --   
                    ---------  --------  ---------------  ---------------  ----------------   
Total expenses          1,313     1,649            1,414            1,382             5,758   
                    ---------  --------  ---------------  ---------------  ----------------   
(Loss) income   
 before income   
 taxes, equity in   
 losses (earnings)   
 and   
 noncontrolling   
 interests              (182)        22              170            (132)             (122)   
Income tax   
 (benefit)   
 expense                 (46)         8               45             (22)              (15)   
Equity in losses   
 (earnings) of   
 unconsolidated   
 entities                   2       (5)              (4)              (2)               (9)   
                    ---------  --------  ---------------  ---------------  ----------------   
Net (loss) income       (138)        19              129            (108)              (98)   
                    ---------  --------  ---------------  ---------------  ----------------   
Less: Net loss   
 attributable to   
 noncontrolling   
 interests                 --        --               --                1                 1   
                    ---------  --------  ---------------  ---------------  ----------------   
Net (loss) income   
 attributable to   
 Anywhere           $   (138)  $     19  $           129  $         (107)  $           (97)   
                    =========  ========  ===============  ===============  ================   
   
(Loss) earnings per share attributable to Anywhere shareholders:   
   Basic (loss)   
    earnings per   
    share           $  (1.26)   $  0.17  $          1.17  $        (0.97)   $        (0.88)   
   Diluted (loss)   
    earnings per   
    share           $  (1.26)   $  0.17  $          1.15  $        (0.97)   $        (0.88)   
Weighted average common and common equivalent shares of Anywhere   
outstanding:   
   Basic                109.8     110.4            110.5            110.5             110.3   
   Diluted              109.8     111.3            112.1            110.5             110.3   
   
   
Table 7   
   
                               ANYWHERE REAL ESTATE INC.   
                        NON-GAAP RECONCILIATION - FREE CASH FLOW   
                     FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2024 AND 2023   
                                     (In millions)   
   
A reconciliation of Net loss attributable to Anywhere to Free Cash Flow as defined in   
Table 9 is set forth in the following table:   
   
                         Three Months Ended                      Year Ended   
                            December 31,                         December 31,   
                 ----------------------------------  ----------------------------------   
                       2024              2023              2024              2023   
                 ----------------  ----------------  ----------------  ----------------   
Net loss   
 attributable   
 to Anywhere     $           (64)   $         (107)   $         (128)  $           (97)   
Income tax   
 expense   
 (benefit)                     13              (22)               (2)              (15)   
Income tax   
 payments                      --              (10)               (1)              (14)   
Interest   
 expense, net                  36                37               153               151   
Cash interest   
 payments                    (47)              (33)             (158)             (168)   
Depreciation   
 and   
 amortization                  47                47               198               196   
Capital   
 expenditures                (24)              (20)              (78)              (72)   
Restructuring   
 costs and   
 former parent   
 legacy items,   
 net of   
 payments                     (2)               (2)                --                23   
Impairments                    11                54                20                65   
Gain on the   
 early   
 extinguishment   
 of debt                       --                --               (7)             (169)   
Loss on the   
 sale of   
 businesses,   
 investments or   
 other assets,   
 net                            3                --                 3                 2   
Working capital   
 adjustments                   19                32                37               141   
Relocation   
 receivables   
 (assets), net   
 of   
 securitization   
 obligations                   41                11                13                24   
                 ----------------  ----------------  ----------------  ----------------   
Free Cash Flow   $             33  $           (13)  $             50  $             67   
                 ================  ================  ================  ================   
   
   
A reconciliation of Net cash provided by operating activities to Free Cash Flow is set   
forth in the following table:   
   
                         Three Months Ended                      Year Ended   
                            December 31,                         December 31,   
                 ----------------------------------  ----------------------------------   
                       2024              2023              2024              2023   
                 ----------------  ----------------  ----------------  ----------------   
Net cash   
 provided by   
 operating   
 activities      $             67  $             62   $           104   $           187   
Property and   
 equipment   
 additions                   (24)              (20)              (78)              (72)   
Net change in   
 securitization   
 obligations                  (8)              (55)                25              (48)   
Effect of   
 exchange rates   
 on cash, cash   
 equivalents   
 and restricted   
 cash                         (2)                --               (1)                --   
                 ----------------  ----------------  ----------------  ----------------   
Free Cash Flow   $             33  $           (13)  $             50  $             67   
                 ================  ================  ================  ================   
   
Net cash used   
 in investing   
 activities      $           (23)  $           (20)  $           (77)  $           (59)   
Net cash used   
 in financing   
 activities      $           (24)  $           (81)  $           (21)   $         (227)   
   
   
Table 8a   
           NON-GAAP RECONCILIATION - SENIOR SECURED LEVERAGE RATIO   
                     FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2024   
                                 (In millions)   
The senior secured leverage ratio is tested quarterly pursuant to the terms of   
the senior secured credit facilities*. For the trailing twelve-month period   
ended December 31, 2024, Anywhere Real Estate Group LLC ("Anywhere Group") was   
required to maintain a senior secured leverage ratio not to exceed 4.75 to   
1.00. The senior secured leverage ratio is measured by dividing Anywhere   
Group's total senior secured net debt by the trailing twelve-month EBITDA   
calculated on a Pro Forma Basis, as those terms are defined in the Senior   
Secured Credit Agreement. Total senior secured net debt does not include the   
7.00% Senior Secured Second Lien Notes*, our unsecured indebtedness, including   
the Unsecured Notes* and Exchangeable Senior Notes*, or the securitization   
obligations. EBITDA calculated on a Pro Forma Basis, as defined in the Senior   
Secured Credit Agreement, includes the bank adjustments set forth below. The   
Company was in compliance with the senior secured leverage ratio covenant at   
December 31, 2024 with a ratio of 1.22x to 1.00.   
   
A reconciliation of Net loss attributable to Anywhere Group to EBITDA   
calculated on a Pro Forma Basis, as those terms are defined in the Senior   
Secured Credit Agreement, for the twelve-month period ended December 31, 2024   
is set forth in the following table:   
   
   
                                                  For the Year Ended   
                                                  December 31, 2024   
                                        --------------------------------------   
Net loss attributable to Anywhere   
 Group (a)                               $                               (128)   
Bank covenant adjustments:   
 Income tax benefit                                                        (2)   
 Depreciation and amortization                                             198   
 Interest expense, net                                                     153   
 Restructuring costs, net                                                   32   
 Impairments                                                                20   
 Former parent legacy cost, net                                              2   
 Gain on the early extinguishment of   
  debt                                                                     (7)   
 Pro forma effect of business   
  optimization initiatives (b)                                              20   
 Non-cash stock compensation expense,   
  other non-cash charges and   
  extraordinary, nonrecurring or   
  unusual charges (c)                                                       37   
 Pro forma effect of acquisitions and   
  new franchisees (d)                                                        4   
 Incremental securitization interest   
  costs (e)                                                                  9   
                                        --------------------------------------   
EBITDA as defined by the Senior   
 Secured Credit Agreement*               $                                 338   
                                        --------------------------------------   
Total senior secured net debt (f)        $                                 411   
Senior secured leverage ratio*                                            1.22   
                                                                          x   
   
   
_______________   
(a)  Net loss attributable to Anywhere Group consists of: (i) loss of $101   
     million for the first quarter of 2024, (ii) income of $30 million for the   
     second quarter of 2024, (iii) income of $7 million for the third quarter   
     of 2024 and (iv) loss of $64 million for the fourth quarter of 2024.   
(b)  Represents the twelve-month pro forma effect of business optimization   
     initiatives.   
(c)  Represents non-cash long term incentive compensation charges, other   
     non-cash charges and extraordinary, nonrecurring or unusual litigation   
     charges.   
(d)  Represents the estimated impact of acquisitions and franchise sales   
     activity, net of brokerages that exited our franchise system, as if these   
     changes had occurred at the beginning of the trailing twelve-month   
     period. Franchisee sales activity is comprised of new franchise   
     agreements as well as growth through acquisitions and independent sales   
     agent recruitment by existing franchisees with our assistance. We have   
     made a number of assumptions in calculating such estimates and there can   
     be no assurance that we would have generated the projected levels of   
     Operating EBITDA had we owned the acquired entities or entered into the   
     franchise contracts as of the beginning of the trailing twelve-month   
     period.   
(e)  Incremental borrowing costs incurred as a result of the securitization   
     facilities refinancing for the twelve-month period ended December 31,   
     2024.   
(f)  Represents total borrowings secured by a first priority lien on our   
     assets of $490 million under the Revolving Credit Facility plus $15   
     million of finance lease obligations less $94 million of readily   
     available cash as of December 31, 2024. Pursuant to the terms of our   
     senior secured credit facilities, total senior secured net debt does not   
     include our securitization obligations, 7.00% Senior Secured Second Lien   
     Notes or unsecured indebtedness, including the Unsecured Notes and   
     Exchangeable Senior Notes.   
   
*    Our senior secured credit facilities include the facilities under our   
     Amended and Restated Credit Agreement dated as of March 5, 2013, as   
     amended from time to time (the "Senior Secured Credit Agreement"). Our   
     Senior Secured Second Lien Notes include our 7.00% Senior Secured Second   
     Lien Notes due in 2030. Our Unsecured Notes include our 5.75% Senior   
     Notes due 2029 and 5.25% Senior Notes due 2030. Exchangeable Senior Notes   
     refers to our 0.25% Exchangeable Senior Notes due 2026.   
   
   
Table 8b   
   
                          NET DEBT LEVERAGE RATIO   
                    FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2024   
                                (In millions)   
   
Net corporate debt (excluding securitizations) divided by EBITDA calculated   
on a Pro Forma Basis, as those terms are defined in the Senior Secured   
Credit Agreement, for the year ended December 31, 2024 (referred to as net   
debt leverage ratio) is set forth in the following table:   
   
                                              As of December 31, 2024   
                                        ------------------------------------   
Revolving Credit Facility                    $                           490   
7.00% Senior Secured Second Lien Notes                                   640   
5.75% Senior Notes                                                       558   
5.25% Senior Notes                                                       449   
0.25% Exchangeable Senior Notes                                          403   
Finance lease obligations                                                 15   
                                        ------------------------------------   
 Corporate Debt (excluding   
  securitizations)                                                     2,555   
 Less: Cash and cash equivalents                                         118   
                                        ------------------------------------   
Net Corporate Debt (excluding   
 securitizations)                             $                        2,437   
   
EBITDA as defined by the Senior   
 Secured Credit Agreement (a)                $                           338   
                                        ------------------------------------   
   
Net Debt Leverage Ratio                                                7.2 x   
   
   
_______________   
(a)  See Table 8a for a reconciliation of Net loss attributable to Anywhere   
     Group to EBITDA as defined by the Senior Secured Credit Agreement.   
 
```

Table 9

Non-GAAP Definitions

Operating EBITDA is our primary non-GAAP measure. Operating EBITDA is defined as net income (loss) adjusted for depreciation and amortization, interest expense, net (excluding relocation services interest for securitization assets and securitization obligations), income taxes, and certain non-core items. Operating EBITDA Margin is defined as Operating EBITDA as a percentage of revenues.

Prior to December 31, 2024, non-core items included restructuring charges, impairments, former parent legacy items, gains or losses on the early extinguishment of debt, and gains or losses on discontinued operations or the sale of businesses, investments or other assets. Effective December 31, 2024, we updated our definition of Operating EBITDA to include adjustments for non-cash stock-based compensation and legal contingencies unrelated to normal operations which currently includes industry-wide antitrust lawsuits and class action lawsuits to conform with similar adjustments and measures disclosed by industry competitors. The adjustment for stock-based compensation reflect non-cash expenses that are based on grant date fair value, which is influenced by the Company's stock price, and recognized over the requisite service period. The adjustment for legal contingencies excludes cases that are part of our normal operating activities and legal expenses incurred in the ordinary course of business.

Our updated definition of Operating EBITDA includes adjustments for non-core items that include non-cash stock-based compensation, restructuring charges, impairments, former parent legacy items, legal contingencies unrelated to normal operations which currently includes industry-wide antitrust lawsuits and class action lawsuits, gains or losses on the early extinguishment of debt, and gains or losses on discontinued operations or the sale of businesses, investments or other assets. These changes have been applied retrospectively to prior periods to enhance comparability. These changes have an immaterial impact on the segment profitability measure, with no significant effect on trends or comparability between periods. We believe this updated Operating EBITDA better facilitates comparisons of operating performance across companies, however our presentation of Operating EBITDA may not fully align with similar measures employed by other companies.

We present Operating EBITDA because we believe it is useful as a supplemental measure in evaluating the performance of our operating businesses and provides greater transparency into our results of operations. Our management, including our chief operating decision maker, uses Operating EBITDA as a factor in evaluating the performance of our business. Operating EBITDA should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for net income or other statement of operations data prepared in accordance with GAAP.

We believe Operating EBITDA facilitates company-to-company operating performance comparisons by backing out potential differences caused by variations in capital structures (affecting net interest expense), taxation, the age and book depreciation of facilities (affecting relative depreciation expense) and the amortization of intangibles, as well as other items that are not core to the operating activities of the Company, which may vary for different companies for reasons unrelated to operating performance. We further believe that Operating EBITDA is frequently used by securities analysts, investors and other interested parties in their evaluation of companies, many of which present an Operating EBITDA measure when reporting their results.

Operating EBITDA has limitations as an analytical tool, and you should not consider Operating EBITDA either in isolation or as a substitute for analyzing our results as reported under GAAP. Some of these limitations are:

* this measure does not reflect changes in, or cash required for, our working capital needs;
* this measure does not reflect our interest expense (except for interest related to our securitization obligations), or the cash requirements necessary to service interest or principal payments on our debt;
* this measure does not reflect our income tax expense or the cash requirements to pay our taxes;
* this measure does not reflect historical cash expenditures or future requirements for capital expenditures or contractual commitments;
* although depreciation and amortization are non-cash charges, the assets being depreciated and amortized will often require replacement in the future, and this measure does not reflect any cash requirements for such replacements; and
* other companies may calculate this measure differently so they may not be comparable.

In addition to Operating EBITDA, we present Adjusted net income (loss) because we believe this measure is useful as a supplemental measure in evaluating the performance of our operating businesses and provides greater transparency into our operating results. Similar to the update to Operating EBITDA discussed above, effective December 31, 2024, we updated our definition of Adjusted net income (loss) to include adjustments for non-cash stock-based compensation and legal contingencies unrelated to normal operations which currently includes industry-wide antitrust lawsuits and class action lawsuits. Adjusted net income (loss) is defined by us as net income (loss) before: (a) mark-to-market interest rate swap adjustments; (b) non-cash stock-based compensation; (c) restructuring charges as a result of initiatives currently in progress; (d) impairments; (e) former parent legacy items, which pertain to liabilities of the former parent for matters prior to mid-2006 and are non-operational in nature; (f) legal contingencies unrelated to normal operations which currently includes industry-wide antitrust lawsuits and class action lawsuits; (g) (gain) loss on the early extinguishment of debt that results from refinancing and deleveraging debt initiatives; (h) the (gain) loss on the sale of businesses, investments or other assets and (i) the tax effect of the foregoing adjustments.

Free Cash Flow is defined as net income (loss) attributable to Anywhere before income tax expense (benefit), income tax payments, interest expense, net, cash interest payments, depreciation and amortization, capital expenditures, restructuring costs and former parent legacy costs (benefits), net of payments, impairments, (gain) loss on the sale of businesses, investments or other assets, (gain) loss on the early extinguishment of debt, working capital adjustments and relocation receivables (assets), net of change in securitization obligations. We use Free Cash Flow in our internal evaluation of operating effectiveness and decisions regarding the allocation of resources, as well as measuring the Company's ability to generate cash. Since Free Cash Flow can be viewed as both a performance measure and a cash flow measure, the Company has provided a reconciliation to both net income (loss) attributable to Anywhere and net cash provided by (used in) operating activities. Free Cash Flow is not defined by GAAP and should not be considered in isolation or as an alternative to net income (loss), net cash provided by (used in) operating, investing and financing activities or other financial data prepared in accordance with GAAP or as an indicator of the Company's operating performance or liquidity. Free Cash Flow may differ from similarly titled measures presented by other companies.

View original content to download multimedia:https://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/anywhere-real-estate-inc-reports-fourth-quarter-and-full-year-2024-financial-results-302375613.html

SOURCE Anywhere Real Estate Inc.

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250213008046:0/)
