---
title: "Hightower Advisors to Replace Bob Oros as CEO — Barrons.com"
date: "2025-02-12 06:25:00"
summary: "By Andrew WelschHightower Advisors is replacing CEO Bob Oros with Larry Restieri, former chief executive of Goldman Sachs' Ayco unit. The CEO change will happen on an unspecified date this spring, the company said late Tuesday afternoon.Oros has led Hightower since 2019, and grown the company through acquisitions of registered..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Andrew Welsch

Hightower Advisors is replacing CEO Bob Oros with Larry Restieri, former chief executive of Goldman Sachs' Ayco unit. The CEO change will happen on an unspecified date this spring, the company said late Tuesday afternoon.

Oros has led Hightower since 2019, and grown the company through acquisitions of registered investment advisory firms. During his tenure, he oversaw more than 50 M&A transactions and grew assets under advisement from $57 billion to $1.8 trillion, according to Hightower. Oros will remain as a member of the Chicago-based company's board of directors, according to Hightower.

The private-equity backed company didn't respond to a request for comment beyond what was in the press release.

Ganesh Rao, managing director and head of financial technology and services at THL Partners, Hightower's majority investor, credited Oros in the release announcing the change with guiding the company through a period of growth.

He also welcomed Restieri to Hightower, stating that he "has an extensive understanding of the wealth management industry and a proven track record of success in building businesses."

Restieri spent 25 years at Goldman Sachs, holding several leadership roles focused on wealth and asset management, according to Hightower. He departed the company earlier this month.

"I am honored and excited to join Hightower at this pivotal moment," said Restieri. "Under Bob's leadership, the firm has built an incredible reputation as a leading partner for independent advisors, providing them with the tools and resources needed to succeed. I look forward to working with the talented Hightower team, our advisors, and the board, including Bob."

Hightower was founded by Elliott Weissbluth in 2007, and initially found success by helping advisor teams with large assets under management leave the national brokerage firms to open independent practices. Oros, a former Fidelity Investments executive, took over as CEO at Hightower in 2019.

Hightower is ranked No. 3 Mega RIA on Barron's Top RIAs for 2024.

Write to Andrew Welsch at andrew.welsch@barrons.com

This content was created by Barron's, which is operated by Dow Jones & Co. Barron's is published independently from Dow Jones Newswires and The Wall Street Journal.

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250211012293:0/)
