---
title: "T-Mobile's Starlink Offer Spotlights Coming Satellite Race"
date: "2025-02-10 08:04:00"
summary: "By Drew FitzGeraldWireless companies are done bragging about their 5G signals. Space is the new frontier.T-Mobile broadcast that message Sunday with a Super Bowl ad spotlighting its partnership with Starlink, the satellite network from Elon Musk's SpaceX. After more than two years of planning and testing, the companies are opening..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Drew FitzGerald

Wireless companies are done bragging about their 5G signals. Space is the new frontier.

T-Mobile broadcast that message Sunday with a Super Bowl ad spotlighting its partnership with Starlink, the satellite network from Elon Musk's SpaceX. After more than two years of planning and testing, the companies are opening their trial service to the public, allowing users who enroll to send and receive text messages via satellite in areas cellphone signals can't reach.

"If you can see the sky, you're connected," T-Mobile's minute-long ad promises. AT&T and Verizon customers with dual-SIM smartphones can also register for the Starlink beta test.

The marketing campaign spotlights U.S. wireless companies's plans to use satellite connectivity to pry new customers away from the competition. The top three carriers spent years marketing ultrafast fifth-generation wireless service before it became common--though many patches of the country still lack any cellular signal.

The Starlink partnership has so far launched more than 450 satellites that use T-Mobile's wireless frequencies to send and receive text messages. They plan to launch hundreds more to fill in coverage gaps over the coming months.

T-Mobile says some customers might wait weeks to get connected.

Verizon and AT&T both partnered with AST SpaceMobile, a Starlink competitor, to develop their extraterrestrial texts. Verizon ran its own satellite ad featuring astronaut Buzz Aldrin and actor Paul Marcarelli, a throwback to the cellphone carrier's iconic "can you hear me now?" campaign.

This item is part of a Wall Street Journal live coverage event. The full stream can be found by searching P/WSJL (WSJ Live Coverage).

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250209001000:0/)
