---
title: "BP Expects Indiana Refinery to Run at Capacity in 2025 After Major 4Q Work — OPIS"
date: "2025-02-12 04:08:00"
summary: "BP on Tuesday said it expects its 440,000 b/d refinery in Whiting, Ind., will run at full capacity this year after completing a major maintenance turnaround in the fourth quarter.The company is also planning to carry out less maintenance work at its refiners this year, Chief Executive Martin Auchincloss told..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

BP on Tuesday said it expects its 440,000 b/d refinery in Whiting, Ind., will run at full capacity this year after completing a major maintenance turnaround in the fourth quarter.

The company is also planning to carry out less maintenance work at its refiners this year, Chief Executive Martin Auchincloss told analysts in a call to discuss fourth-quarter financial results.

Auchincloss said last year was challenging for its refining operations due to low margins and refined product prices in the U.S. and Europe.

He said work done at the Whiting refinery in 4Q included replacing a coker unit. The facility shut down in early February 2024 after a power outage and did not resume operations until mid-March.

Auchincloss said BP is aiming to improve the company's refinery utilization to 96%, up from 94.3% last year. In 2023, the company said its refinery utilization was 96.1% in 2023.

He also said he expects the company will have fewer complicated turnarounds at its other refineries this year, adding that maintenance work should be heavily weighted toward the first half of the year with the largest impact coming in the second quarter.

BP last week said it was seeking to sell its 240,000 b/d Gelsenkirchen refinery and its associated assets in Germany this year. The company has said the refinery is too complex and costly for it to operate.

The company reported a sharp drop in its fourth-quarter earnings, posting a replacement cost profit of $1.169 billion, down from $2.99 billion in 4Q 2023.

Auchincloss blamed some of the decline on a drop in sales at its TravelCenters of America truck-stop business in the U.S. and softer biofuel margins.

In response to a question about the impact of possible tariffs on U.S. imports of crude oil from Canada and Mexico, Auchincloss said if crude BP could send oil north from the Gulf Coast to supply Midwest refiners, which rely heavily on Canadian oil. Further, he said Canadian producers could send oil to the West Coast from where it could be moved to overseas markets.

He added, however, that it's difficult to predict how tariffs could affect refining margins given uncertainties over what they would mean for crude oil flows.

Auchincloss also said BP last year approved projects to boost growth and continues to focus on low-carbon investments and cost reductions.

This content was created by Oil Price Information Service, which is operated by Dow Jones & Co. OPIS is run independently from Dow Jones Newswires and The Wall Street Journal.

* Reporting by Frank Tang, ftang@opisnet.com; Editing by Jeff Barber, jbarber@opisnet.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250211009130:0-bp-expects-indiana-refinery-to-run-at-capacity-in-2025-after-major-4q-work-opis/)
