---
title: "McEwen Mining Files 8K - Entry Into Definitive Agreement >MUX"
date: "2025-02-12 06:25:00"
summary: "McEwen Mining Inc. (MUX) filed a Form 8K - Entry Into a Definitive Agreement - with the U.S Securities and Exchange Commission on February 11, 2025.Indenture and NotesOn February 11, 2025, McEwen Mining Inc. (the \"Company\") issued $110.0 million in aggregate principal amount of its 5.25% convertible senior notes due..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

McEwen Mining Inc. (MUX) filed a Form 8K - Entry Into a Definitive Agreement - with the U.S Securities and Exchange Commission on February 11, 2025.

Indenture and Notes

On February 11, 2025, McEwen Mining Inc. (the "Company") issued $110.0 million in aggregate principal amount of its 5.25% convertible senior notes due 2030 (the "Notes"), which amount includes the exercise in full of the $15.0 million option granted to the Initial Purchasers (as defined below) of the Notes, in a private offering to persons reasonably believed to be qualified institutional buyers pursuant to Rule 144A under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"). The Notes bear interest at a fixed rate of 5.25% per year, payable semi-annually in arrears on February 15 and August 15 of each year, beginning on August 15, 2025. The Notes are convertible into cash, shares of the Company's common stock, no par value per share ("Common Stock"), or a combination thereof, at the Company's election, and may be settled as described in the Indenture (as defined below). The Notes will mature on August 15, 2030 (the "Maturity Date"), unless earlier repurchased, redeemed or converted.

The net proceeds from the offering of the Notes were approximately $105.9 million, after deducting fees and estimated expenses payable by the Company. The Company used approximately $15.1 million of the net proceeds from the Notes to pay the cost of the Capped Call Transactions (as defined below) entered into in connection with the offering. The Company intends to use approximately $20.0 million of the net proceeds to partially repay the outstanding amount under the Third Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, as amended (the "Third Amended and Restated Credit Agreement"), between the Company, as borrower, the lenders from time to time party thereto and Evanachan Limited as administrative agent), and the remainder of the net proceeds for general corporate purposes.

The Company issued the Notes pursuant to an indenture, dated as of February 11, 2025 (the "Indenture"), between the Company and U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee (the "Trustee").

Prior to the close of business on the business day immediately preceding May 15, 2030, the Notes will be convertible at the option of the holders only under certain conditions and during certain periods. On or after May 15, 2030, until the close of business on the second scheduled trading day immediately preceding the Maturity Date, holders may convert their Notes, at their option, irrespective of these conditions.

The conversion rate for the Notes will initially be 88.9284 shares of Common Stock per $1,000 principal amount of Notes (equivalent to an initial conversion price of approximately $11.25 per share of Common Stock). The conversion rate and the corresponding conversion price will be subject to adjustment in some events but will not be adjusted for any accrued and unpaid interest. The Company may redeem for cash all or part of the Notes (subject to the partial redemption limitation described in the Indenture), at its option, on or after August 21, 2028 and prior to the 46th scheduled trading day immediately prior to the Maturity Date, if the last reported sale price of the Common Stock has been at least 130% of the conversion price then in effect for at least 20 trading days (whether or not consecutive) during any 30 consecutive trading day period (including the last trading day of such period) ending on, and including, the trading day immediately preceding the date on which the Company provides notice of redemption at a redemption price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Notes to be redeemed, plus accrued and unpaid interest to, but excluding, the redemption date.

If the Company undergoes a fundamental change (as defined in the Indenture), holders may require the Company to repurchase for cash all or part of their Notes at a repurchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Notes to be purchased, plus accrued and unpaid interest to, but excluding, the fundamental change repurchase date (as defined in the Indenture). In addition, following certain corporate events that occur prior to the maturity date of the Notes or if the Company delivers a notice of redemption in respect of the Notes, the Company will, in certain circumstances, increase the conversion rate of the Notes for a holder who elects to convert its Notes in connection with such a corporate event or convert its notes called (or deemed called) for redemption during the related redemption period.

The Indenture provides for customary events of default, which include (subject in certain cases to grace and cure periods), among others: nonpayment of principal or interest; breach of covenants or other agreements in the Indenture; defaults with respect to certain other indebtedness; and certain events of bankruptcy, insolvency or reorganization. Generally, if an event of default occurs and is continuing under the Indenture, either the Trustee or the holders of at least 25% in aggregate principal amount of the Notes then outstanding may declare the principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest on such Notes to be immediately due and payable.

The Notes will be the Company's general unsecured obligations and will rank senior in right of payment to all of the Company's future indebtedness that is expressly subordinated in right of payment to the notes, equal in right of payment with all of the Company's current and future liabilities that are not so subordinated, effectively junior to all of the Company's current and future secured indebtedness to the extent of the value of the assets securing such indebtedness (including any indebtedness outstanding under the Company's Third Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, and structurally junior to all indebtedness and other liabilities (including trade payables) of the Company's subsidiaries.

The description of the Indenture and the Notes above is qualified in its entirety by reference to the text of the Indenture and the Form of Note, copies of which are attached as Exhibits 4.1 and 4.2, respectively, to this Current Report on Form 8-K.

Capped Call Transactions

In connection with the pricing of the Notes on February 7, 2025, the Company entered into privately negotiated capped call transactions (the "Base Capped Call Transactions") with certain financial institutions (the "Option Counterparties"), and in connection with the exercise in full of the option granted to the Initial Purchasers of the Notes, on February 7, 2025, the Company entered into additional capped call transactions (such additional capped call transactions, together with the Base Capped Call Transactions, the "Capped Call Transactions") with the Option Counterparties. The Company used approximately $15.1 million of the net proceeds from the offering of the Notes to pay the cost of the Capped Call Transactions.

The Capped Call Transactions are generally expected to reduce the potential dilution to the Common Stock upon any conversion of the Notes or, at the Company's election (subject to certain conditions), offset any cash payments the Company is required to make in excess of the principal amount of converted Notes, as the case may be, with such reduction and/or offset subject to a cap. The Capped Call Transactions have an initial cap price of $17.30 per share, which represents a premium of approximately 100% over the closing price of the Common Stock on the New York Stock Exchange on February 6, 2025, and is subject to certain adjustments under the terms of the Capped Call Transactions. The Capped Call Transactions cover, subject to customary adjustments substantially similar to those applicable to the Notes, the number of shares of the Common Stock initially underlying the Notes.

The Capped Call Transactions are separate transactions entered into by the Company with the Option Counterparties, are not part of the terms of the Notes, and will not change the rights of the holders of the Notes under such Notes.

The description of the Capped Call Transactions above is qualified in its entirety by reference to the text of the form of capped call confirmation, which is attached as Exhibit 10.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.

The full text of this SEC filing can be retrieved at: https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/314203/000114036125003863/ef20043276\_8k.htm

Any exhibits and associated documents for this SEC filing can be retrieved at: https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/314203/000114036125003863/0001140361-25-003863-index.htm

Public companies must file a Form 8-K, or current report, with the SEC generally within four days of any event that could materially affect a company's financial position or the value of its shares.

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250211012296:0/)
