---
title: "News Highlights: Top Financial Services News of the Day - Wednesday at 11 AM ET"
date: "2025-02-13 00:15:00"
summary: "Why Tariffs Will Make Car Insurance Even More ExpensiveCostlier cars or auto parts can increase claims costs, which take time to filter through to car-insurance rates.Banco BPM Raises Targets, Sweetens Bid for AnimaThe lender lifted its offer for asset manager Anima as it outlined higher midterm targets and seeks to..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

**Why Tariffs Will Make Car Insurance Even More Expensive**

Costlier cars or auto parts can increase claims costs, which take time to filter through to car-insurance rates.

**Banco BPM Raises Targets, Sweetens Bid for Anima**

The lender lifted its offer for asset manager Anima as it outlined higher midterm targets and seeks to defend itself from an unsolicited UniCredit takeover approach.

**SoftBank Posts Quarterly Loss, Gears Up for Giant AI Project**

The tech investment company reported a quarterly loss, partly due to the weakness in its technology funds business, as it geared up for the Stargate project.

**ABN Amro Shares Jump After Core Results Reassure**

Shares hit their highest level in more than five years after the bank reported better-than-expected revenue and reassured investors on its capital return plans and balance-sheet strength.

**America's Most Famous Stock-Market Measure Is More Broken Than Usual**

The Dow Jones Industrial Average draws outsize attention, presenting a distorted picture of what's going on with stocks.

**Trump Advisers Eye Bank Regulator Consolidation After Targeting CFPB**

Pathways under discussion would attempt to merge the FDIC, OCC without input from Congress.

**Financial Services Roundup: Market Talk**

Find insight on Danske Bank, Close Brothers Group and more in the latest Market Talks covering financial services.

**Carlyle Targets Wealthy Investors With Its Expansion Plans**

The firm aims to boost its professional ranks catering to wealthy clients by 50% this year following a 65% gain in assets from individuals in 2024.

**Robinhood Stock Has Soared Along With Crypto. What to Expect From Its Earnings.**

The brokerage firm appears poised to benefit from a surge in investor activity and strong interest in cryptocurrencies.

**TPG Sets High Fundraising Sights for 2025**

Private-equity firm TPG is setting up for a banner fundraising year in 2025 with a goal of doubling its managed assets over the next several years.

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250212009861:0-news-highlights-top-financial-services-news-of-the-day-wednesday-at-11-am-et/)
