---
title: "Global Forex and Fixed Income Roundup: Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-13 15:53:00"
summary: "The latest Market Talks covering FX and Fixed Income. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.0753 GMT - The U.K. can't expect a major pickup in growth in the coming months, says Deloitte's Debapratim De. The British economy unexpectedly grew in the fourth quarter, but only by 0.1%,..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The latest Market Talks covering FX and Fixed Income. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.

0753 GMT - The U.K. can't expect a major pickup in growth in the coming months, says Deloitte's Debapratim De. The British economy unexpectedly grew in the fourth quarter, but only by 0.1%, and "underlying momentum remains weak," De writes in a note. "We continue to expect sluggish growth through spring, with the fiscal easing from last year's Autumn Budget driving a pickup in activity over summer," he says. (joshua.kirby@wsj.com; @joshualeokirby))

0750 GMT - An unexpected rate hold by the Philippines central bank is likely a pause rather than a halt to rate cuts, Capital Economics says. The central bank reiterated that it is still in an easing cycle, and that the decision to stand pat was due to uncertainties regarding U.S. trade policy, says senior Asia economist Gareth Leather. U.S. trade policy will remain uncertain for a while, and BSP clearly needs time before it decides on a response, he adds. "Our assumption is that the Philippines will be hit by a 10% universal tariff, but that the impact will be relatively small." If inflation stays under control, then further rate cuts are likely over the coming months, he says. (fabiana.negrinochoa@wsj.com)

0746 GMT - The U.K.'s small trade surplus with the U.S. is likely to support hopes that the U.K. can minimize or avoid any potential tariffs imposed by President Trump, says Samuel Edwards, head of dealing at Ebury. Data from the Office for National Statistics show the U.K. exported 2.1 billion pounds worth of goods more than it imported in 2024. The small size of the surplus is especially true in comparison with many of the U.S.'s trading partners, Edwards writes in a note. After the impact of 25% steel and aluminum tariffs, any further measures could see the pain spread into other key sectors in the U.K. at a time of economic uncertainty and stuttering economic growth, he says. (edward.frankl@wsj.com)

0742 GMT - The U.K. isn't facing a stagflation crisis, says Joe Nellis, economic adviser at consultancy MHA. The economy unexpectedly grew in the fourth quarter, although only by 0.1%, figures show Thursday, boosted by a strong showing in December. There remain reasons to worry, Nellis says, pointing to shaky business confidence and diminishing fiscal space for the Treasury to meet its spending plans. But fears over 'stagflation'--a combination of high inflation and stagnant economic growth--are overblown, Nellis tells clients in a note. "This comparison is overly pessimistic," he says. "Our current economic malaise - and it is a malaise - is a world away from the stagflation of the 1970s."(joshua.kirby@wsj.com; @joshualeokirby)

0723 GMT - Sterling rises after the latest U.K. economic growth data came in better than expected. The economy grew 0.4% on month in December, beating the 0.1% forecast by economists in a WSJ survey. In the fourth quarter, the economy expanded 0.1% on quarter. Despite exceeding expectations, economic momentum remains "dismal," Pepperstone strategist Michael Brown says in a note. The fourth-quarter figures reinforce the case for 2025 to be a year of stagflation where the economy experiences stagnant growth, stubbornly high inflation and elevated unemployment, he says. The Bank of England is unlikely to cut interest rates more rapidly. GBP/USD rises to a one-week high of 1.2517 after the data from 1.2489 beforehand. EUR/GBP falls to 0.8336 from 0.8352. (renae.dyer@wsj.com)

0719 GMT - Stabilization may lie ahead for bond markets as this week's duration-heavy supply in the eurozone is cleared and the macro calendar thins out, says Commerzbank Research's Hauke Siemssen in a note. However, positive risk sentiment on the latest headlines around Ukraine limits the potential in Bunds, the rates strategist says. U.S. President Trump said he and Russian President Vladimir Putin on Wednesday had agreed to open immediate talks to end the war in Ukraine. Eurozone government bond supply will be modest in the remainder of the week, with only Italy auctioning 4.75 billion-5.75 billion euros in 2027- and 2031-dated bonds on Thursday. The 10-year Bund yield is little changed at 2.475%, according to Tradeweb. (emese.bartha@wsj.com)

0710 GMT - U.S. Treasurys pare some of Wednesday's weakness that was prompted by above-consensus inflation data. The 2- and 10-year Treasury yields fall 3 basis points to 4.338% and 4.606%, respectively, according to Tradeweb. On Wednesday, the 2-year Treasury yield increased 7.5 basis points to 4.365%, while the 10-year Treasury yield rose 10 basis points to 4.637%, according to Tradeweb. "With inflation still above target and the Federal Reserve on hold, fundamentals take center stage," says Global X's Scott Helfstein in a note. However, large and small companies see strong sales and earnings growth so far this quarter and higher rates aren't yet much of an impediment, the head of investment strategy says. (emese.bartha@wsj.com)

0652 GMT - South Korea's benchmark Kospi rose 1.4% to close at 2583.17, gaining for a third consecutive session. Institutional investors were net buyers. Construction and steel stocks advanced after the U.S. and Russian presidents agreed to begin talks to end the war in Ukraine. Heightened expectations for ending the war drove a rally in reconstruction-related stocks, outweighing jitters over hotter-than-expected U.S. consumer inflation data overnight. Excavator maker HD Hyundai Construction Equipment climbed 9.5%. Steelmaker Posco Holdings rose 6.9%. USD/KRW settled 0.4% lower at 1,447.50 in Seoul onshore trading. South Korea's 10-year government bond yield was up 1.1 bps at 2.890%. (kwanwoo.jun@wsj.com)

0648 GMT - U.S. January CPI data that came above forecasts will do little to calm markets that are obsessed with tariffs, says Federated Hermes' Damian McIntyre in a note. The decline in inflation has clearly been paused, and recent tariff announcements have the potential to increase inflation in the coming months, the portfolio manager says. "Fortunately, the labor market is strong, incomes are growing and the consumer is experiencing real wage growth, all of which should help markets weather a sustained pause in rates." The data prompted a significant selloff in U.S. Treasurys causing the 10-year Treasury yield to rise 10 basis points on Wednesday. The 10-year Treasury yield falls 3 basis points to last trade at 4.607%, according to Tradeweb. (emese.bartha@wsj.com)

0643 GMT - The slow progress in U.S. inflation could mean that the Federal Reserve may not lower interest rates until the fall or perhaps not at all this year, says MainSky Asset Management's Eckhard Schulte. "This is not our core scenario, but ultimately it would not establish a new 'market statics'," the chairman of the board says. U.S. inflation data for January came in above expectations, prompting a knee jerk reaction in Treasurys with yields rising. This would only be the case if the Fed were talking about possible interest rate hikes, Schulte says. "But it will not do that as long as the inflation picture does not deteriorate massively over several months." (emese.bartha@wsj.com)

0549 GMT - Asean economies' deep trade and investment ties to China could put them at risk of a large indirect impact from U.S. tariffs, ING's Deepali Bhargava says. China is Asean's largest source of imports, and their supply chains seem increasingly intertwined, the head of APAC research says. The range of traded sectors is extensive, including electronics, steel, plastics, and chemicals. Although Southeast Asia benefits from companies diversifying manufacturing, supply chains remain heavily reliant on China, she notes. Increased economic integration with China could hurt Asean short term via China's slowdown and tariff-reduced export demand. That said, the region can benefit significantly from FDI inflows from both China and the U.S. as businesses diversify manufacturing, she adds. (fabiana.negrinochoa@wsj.com)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250213003794:0/)
