---
title: "Market Talk Roundup: Latest on U.S. Politics"
date: "2025-02-12 02:44:00"
summary: "The latest Market Talks covering U.S. politics. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.1344 ET - Clothing supplier Jerash is looking like a benefactor from tariffs. The Jordan-based company is likely to take up more market share from clothing companies that source from China and are now subject..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The latest Market Talks covering U.S. politics. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.

1344 ET - Clothing supplier Jerash is looking like a benefactor from tariffs. The Jordan-based company is likely to take up more market share from clothing companies that source from China and are now subject to increased duties, D.A. Davidson analyst Michael Baker says in a note. Jerash says in a call with analysts it has gotten more inquiries from customers looking for tariff-free partners. "People are looking for production in manufacturing facilities in tariff-free countries, but now it is just getting more urgent and so that is a great opportunity for us," Chief Executive Samuel Choi says. (katherine.hamilton@wsj.com)

1330 ET - CoreCivic is looking at reopening its South Texas Family Residential Center, which closed in August. The closure contributed to the private prison operator missing Wall Street expectations with its 2025 outlook. But the Trump administration's strong demand for immigrant detention capacity could result in a reactivation of the center, company executives say on a call with analysts. CoreCivic usually takes four to six months to open a new facility, but it is looking to speed up that timeline to meet growing demand, and believes it could open the Texas center quickly because it hasn't been closed for long. (katherine.hamilton@wsj.com)

1327 ET - Private prison manager CoreCivic is expecting the U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement will want to add 150,000 to 200,000 new beds for detained immigrants. The company gave ICE a proposal to offer 28,000 beds for detainees, which could yield up to $1.5 billion in revenue, president and COO Patrick Swindle tells analysts. Even with the Trump administration considering housing detainees at Guantanamo Bay, CoreCivic believes ICE's demand for bed capacity is extremely strong for domestic locations, as well. (katherine.hamilton@wsj.com)

1317 ET - While the North American auto industry scurries to adapt to the threat of US tariffs, auto-parts maker Magna International is deepening relationships with automakers. Magna and Mercedes-Benz are expanding their partnership, which they say is "strengthened through development and engineering services up to the production of the all-new electric model of Mercedes-Benz's iconic off-roader." Last year, Magna began production of the eDS Duo eDrive system at its Lannach facility in Austria. Magna says the long-term partnership includes the production of more than 500,000 iconic off-roader at Magna's Graz, Austria facility since 1979. (adriano.marchese@wsj.com)

1253 ET - Count golf cart manufacturing among the industries making moves to dodge trade headwinds. Massimo Group says its taking steps to assemble its MVR golf cars at a facility in Texas. The company cites a numbers of trade scuffles behind the move, noting various duties and tariffs ranging from 149% to 500% on manufacturers stemming form a petition that drew attention to how certain foreign companies, helped by government subsidies, were able to export vehicles at significantly lower costs. Massimo says that shifting production to the U.S. proactively addresses trade challenges, while also looking to diversity its supply chain into Vietnam and lessen the impact of any tariffs from China. (paul.ziobro@wsj.com)

1230 ET - Carrier Global is thinking about tariffs by category. The air-conditioning and building-automation company's first category relates to what's been implemented such as those concerning China. CEO David Gitlin on an earnings call says the second bucket relates to Mexico, Canada and Europe, which Carrier also feels confident it can and will mitigate as well. "The big one that we have to keep an eye on is Mexico because we have operations down there," he adds. Gitlin emphasizes much about tariffs remains to be seen, and that the company is looking at pricing measures and actions to mitigate any impact it can't fully mitigate through pricing and supply chain issues. (denny.jacob@wsj.com; @pennedbyden)

1200 ET - Base metal prices fall, with LME three-month copper down 1% at $9,358 a metric ton and LME three-month aluminum down 0.85% at $2,638.50 a ton. Metal prices sit higher on-week however, after President Trump formalized 25% tariffs on all aluminum and steel imports, removing prior exemptions, Morgan Stanley analysts say in a note. The tariffs will likely raise costs for U.S. aluminum users, predominantly via a higher Midwest premium, which has already jumped from 16% of the LME price in November to 29%--and could rise higher, Morgan Stanley analysts write. The copper spread has also widened, with U.S. commodities exchange Comex now trading at an 11% premium to the LME, from a normal level of 0%-2%. This suggests the market is anticipating future tariffs on copper, Morgan Stanley adds. (joseph.hoppe@wsj.com)

1158 ET - To estimate the impact of President Trump's new round of tariffs, look back at 2018-2019, AutoNation executives say. The national car dealer says there is potential for tariffs from a new Trump era to impact its volume and margins, and for that tariff impact to show itself in wholesale prices and "ultimately through into retail prices," the company says on an earnings call. "So, the 2018 experience of tariffs was, there was an impact in the marketplace from a price point of view," and that impact was felt one or two years until the costs were absorbed in the system, meaning manufacturers found different ways to mitigate the added costs and keep sales volume up. However, the exec notes, that's right when a global pandemic arrived. Shares fall 2.7%. (emon.reiser@wsj.com; @emonreiser)

1154 ET - Shopify says removing the de minimis trade exemption will harm small businesses, the bread and butter of its clientele. In a call to investors, executives said small and medium businesses are responsible for around two-thirds of all jobs created and said that merchants on the platform alone move billions of dollar across the border, and de minimis is crucial for them. Executives said that they try to help by displaying more information, such as what duties are being collected at checkout, or make it easier for shoppers to buy from their own countries. "We try to protect and empower every business we can but obviously especially we care about the underdogs," they said. (adriano.marchese@wsj.com)

1131 ET - Republican Senator Cynthia Lummis of Wyoming expresses frustration to Fed Chair Jerome Powell over what she describes as the central bank's resistance to congressional oversight. "This is why the American people think there's a deep state," Lummis says. "We always work with the committee to be responsive to your requests," Powell says in response. (matt.grossman@wsj.com)

1117 ET - Travelers from Mexico and Canada have been cancelling reservations and pulling back on travel plans in light of heightened geopolitical tensions and looming tariffs, but it is too soon to tell whether this downturn will hurt Marriott International's future results, CFO Leeny Oberg says on a call with analysts. She's not too worried, though, as the majority of the U.S. and Canadian market is driven by domestic travels. "We'll see over time, but certainly too early to say and overwhelmingly a very small part of our business in the U.S.," she says. Marriott shares fall 4.7% after its 2025 outlook misses estimates. (connor.hart@wsj.com)

1110 ET - Ford could face layoffs if Trump gets rid of certain legislation that Biden passed to support electric vehicle production. CEO Jim Farley said he is concerned about Trump repealing parts of the Inflation Reduction Act, which incentivized various green-energy efforts including electric vehicle production. Ford has already sunk capital into initiatives that would benefit from the IRA, and expects it would have to cut jobs at plants across the country if large parts of the IRA is repealed. Farley said he is visiting D.C. on Wednesday for the second time in three weeks to try to highlight how much policy uncertainty is weighing on the auto industry. (katherine.hamilton@wsj.com)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250211008722:0/)
