---
title: "HEYDUDE Partners with Heisman Trophy Winner, Travis Hunter, to Launch New \"Unlike Anything\" Global Brand Campaign"
date: "2025-02-11 22:01:00"
summary: "HEYDUDE Partners with Heisman Trophy Winner, Travis Hunter, to Launch New \"Unlike Anything\" Global Brand CampaignPR NewswireWESTWOOD, Mass., Feb. 11, 2025Travis Hunter joins HEYDUDE as its first-ever NFL prospect partner to inspire consumers to celebrate what makes them uniquely themselvesWESTWOOD, Mass., Feb. 11, 2025 /PRNewswire/ — HEYDUDE, the popular casual..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

HEYDUDE Partners with Heisman Trophy Winner, Travis Hunter, to Launch New "Unlike Anything" Global Brand Campaign

PR Newswire

WESTWOOD, Mass., Feb. 11, 2025

Travis Hunter joins HEYDUDE as its first-ever NFL prospect partner to inspire consumers to celebrate what makes them uniquely themselves

WESTWOOD, Mass., Feb. 11, 2025 /PRNewswire/ — HEYDUDE, the popular casual footwear brand that is known for blending individual style and lightweight comfort into every pair of shoes, is launching a new global campaign, "Unlike Anything". The campaign features rising football star and Heisman Trophy winner, Travis Hunter, who continues to redefine what it means to defy expectations and pave his own path on and off the football field.

The "Unlike Anything" campaign is an important milestone for the brand, aimed at embracing the very things that make our fans truly unlike anything. Celebrating those who are defiantly comfortable in their own shoes, creative, confident and uniquely themselves.

Hunter was one of the most dynamic players in college football history, as a unanimous All-American excelling at both cornerback and wide receiver. His historic senior season had him named AP College Football Player of the Year, Heisman Trophy winner, and Academic All-American. He is expected to be a top pick in the 2025 NFL Draft.

"We're excited to finally debut 'Unlike Anything' because it's a true celebration of HEYDUDE and the community of Dudes around us," said Paul Nugent, CMO, HEYDUDE. "That ethos is ingrained in our DNA and has been our north star from product drops, partnerships and everything in between. We knew Travis could really bring this mantra to life in a unique and dynamic way, so once we found out he was already a long-time brand fan, it felt like a no-brainer."

Although Hunter's versatility on the football field captured national attention, it is equally how he conducts himself off the field — his unique style, confidence and ability to challenge norms — that perfectly embodies the "Unlike Anything" positioning.

A genuine fan of the brand, Hunter will show-off his more casual side in this campaign, being captured off the field doing the things he loves - fishing, gaming and unwinding after practice. The campaign will feature him in various HEYDUDE Wally styles, including the Wally Stretch Sox and Wally Slipper, that provide lightweight comfort.

"For me, being great starts with how I spend my time off the field to recharge and focus," said Travis Hunter. "Whether I am relaxing or on a boat fishing, my HEYDUDE Wally shoes bring a sense of comfort and confidence that allows me to really live in the moment and find that balance. That's why I'm so excited to show off my HEYDUDE Wally shoes that have been a part of my life for a long time."

The partnership with Hunter will be the first of many to come for the brand under the "Unlike Anything" platform, and will include new Wally product drops, coordinated social media efforts, and in-store and digital marketing. The campaign will pave new ways for HEYDUDE to continue highlighting key differentiators in fans and products through ongoing product innovations, collaborators and partnerships.

"We're thrilled to bring this campaign and new platform to our fans," said Nugent. "Our community of Dudes are unlike anything and we plan to continue innovating through this lens in 2025 and beyond."

To learn more about HEYDUDE and how it's redefining what it means to be a Dude, visit HEYDUDE.com and follow on Instagram at @heydude and TikTok on @heydudeshoes.

About Crocs, Inc.

Crocs, Inc. , headquartered in Broomfield, Colorado, is a world leader in innovative casual footwear for all, combining comfort and style with a value that consumers know and love. The Company's brands include Crocs and HEYDUDE, and its products are sold in more than 80 countries through wholesale and direct-to-consumer channels. For more information on Crocs, Inc. visit investors.crocs.com. To learn more about our brands, visit www.crocs.com or www.heydude.com. Individuals can also visit https://investors.crocs.com/news-and-events/ and follow both Crocs and HEYDUDE on their social platforms.

PR Contact:

Kaplow Communications

HEYDUDE@kaplow.com

View original content to download multimedia:https://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/heydude-partners-with-heisman-trophy-winner-travis-hunter-to-launch-new-unlike-anything-global-brand-campaign-302373396.html

SOURCE HEYDUDE

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250211005773:0/)
