---
title: "OPEC Sticks to Oil-Demand View, Flags U.S. Trade Policy Risks — Commodities Roundup"
date: "2025-02-13 01:47:00"
summary: "MARKET MOVEMENTS:Brent crude oil is down 2.05% at $75.42 a barrelEuropean benchmark gas is up 0.7% at 56.08 euros a megawatt-hourGold futures are flat on $2,932.20 a troy ounceLME three-month copper futures are up 1.35% at $9,483 a metric tonTOP STORY:OPEC Sticks to Oil-Demand View, Flags U.S. Trade Policy RisksThe..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

MARKET MOVEMENTS:

* Brent crude oil is down 2.05% at $75.42 a barrel
* European benchmark gas is up 0.7% at 56.08 euros a megawatt-hour
* Gold futures are flat on $2,932.20 a troy ounce
* LME three-month copper futures are up 1.35% at $9,483 a metric ton

TOP STORY:

OPEC Sticks to Oil-Demand View, Flags U.S. Trade Policy Risks

The Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries stuck to its oil-demand forecast after reaffirming plans to gradually hike output from April, but said U.S. President Trump's trade policy is injecting a dose of uncertainty into markets.

"The new U.S. Administration's trade policy has added more uncertainty into markets, which has the potential to create supply-demand imbalances that are not reflective of market fundamentals, and therefore generate more volatility," the Vienna-based cartel said.

OPEC still expects demand to grow by 1.45 million barrels a day this year and 1.43 million barrels a day the next, with strong air travel and road mobility boosting transportation fuel consumption. The group's overall forecast remains significantly more optimistic than others in the industry, with the International Energy Agency estimating this year's growth at 1.05 million barrels a day.

OTHER STORIES:

U.S. Crude Oil Stockpiles Rise For Third Straight Week

U.S. crude oil inventories increased for a third consecutive week while gasoline stocks declined for the first time in three months, according to data released Wednesday by the U.S. Energy Information Administration.

Commercial crude oil stocks excluding the Strategic Petroleum Reserve rose by 4.1 million barrels to 427.9 million barrels in the week ended Feb. 7 and were about 4% below the five-year average for the time of year, the EIA said. Analysts surveyed by The Wall Street Journal had expected crude stockpiles to be up by 2.4 million barrels.

--

Berkshire Purchases Cushion Occidental Stock — WSJ

Occidental Petroleum shares escaped a broader market downdraft Wednesday after Warren Buffett's Berkshire Hathaway disclosed it had bought more of the oil company's stock.

Berkshire snapped up almost $36 million of Occidental shares late last week, according to a filing Tuesday night. It owns a little more than 28% of Occidental, according to Dow Jones Market Data.

--

Evolution Mining CEO Looks Inward to Unearth Growth

MELBOURNE, Australia- Evolution Mining has arguably been best known for its dealmaking acumen under the stewardship of founder Jake Klein.

A priority for Chief Executive Lawrie Conway as he puts his own stamp on Australia's second-biggest gold miner is showing the market that Evolution can make the most of what it's currently got.

--

Siemens Energy Net Profit Falls; Revenue, Order Backlog Rise

Siemens Energy said first-quarter net profit for fiscal year 2025 fell but revenue rose, as the company's order backlog continues to increase.

The German energy company on Wednesday booked a net profit of 252 million euros ($261.1 million) in the quarter ended Dec. 31 compared with 1.58 billion euros it booked in the same period a year prior.

--

Barrick Quarterly Earnings Buoyed by Higher Prices

Barrick Gold logged a jump in earnings in the final quarter of last year as it benefited from the soaring price of gold, though it flagged a drop in production of the precious metal this year with output in Mali suspended amid a dispute with the government.

The Canadian company, one of the world's largest producers of gold, recorded fourth-quarter net earnings of $996 million, or 57 cents a share, up sharply from $479 million, or 27 cents a share, a year earlier.

--

Barrick CEO Sees Uncertainty Globally Pushing Case to Invest in Gold

The uncertainty the new U.S. administration has added to global trade has bolstered the argument for investing in gold, while also highlighting to mining companies America's appetite for critical minerals, Barrick Gold Chief Executive Mark Bristow says.

The precious metal has hit a series of fresh highs in the new year after jumping almost 30% in 2024, in part reflecting uncertainty over U.S. policy and President Trump's willingness to impose tariffs even on the country's closest trading partners.

MARKET TALKS:

Corn Positive as Trader Attention Returns to South America — Market Talk

1214 ET - Traders are again focusing on the weather in South America following yesterday's WASDE report showing the outlook for world corn stocks falling by roughly 3 million metric tons. "The rains and delays in South America have a track record of pressuring yields which is keeping the bulls on the long side of the market fed," said Sterling Smith of StoneX in a note. Most-active corn futures are up 0.9% and wheat is climbing 0.4%, while soybeans sink 1.6%. (kirk.maltais@wsj.com)

--

Base Metal Prices Mixed; Speculators Raise Bullish Copper, Aluminum Bets — Market Talk

1706 GMT - Base metal prices are mixed, with LME three-month copper up 1.1% at $9,459 a metric ton and LME three-month aluminum down 0.6% at $2,623.50 a ton. President Trump's planned 25% tariffs on all steel and aluminum products have already widened the Midwest premium U.S. buyers have to pay over LME prices. The latest LME commitment of traders report shows investors increased their net bullish position in copper by 5,224 lots for a sixth consecutive week to 73,763 lots for the week ended Feb. 7--the highest net long position since the beginning of November, ING analysts say in a note. In aluminum, speculators raised net bullish bets by 2,109 lots to 119,588 lots over the last reporting week. This was the highest bullish bet since mid-November, ING adds. (joseph.hoppe@wsj.com)

--

Trudeau Warns Vance on Fallout in Ohio From Metals Tariff — Market Talk

1158 ET - Canada Prime Minister Justin Trudeau says he had a short encounter with Vice President JD Vance about the negative fallout from a 25% tariff on steel and aluminum from Ohio. Trudeau tells reporters he told Vance — for an AI conference in Paris that the two lawmakers attended — that about C$2.2 billion of Canadian-made steel and aluminum are used by manufacturers in Vance's home state. "He nodded and noted it," Trudeau says, noting it was a short exchange. Earlier in the day, Quebec Premier Francois Legault mused that perhaps Canada should slap an export tax on U.S.-bound aluminum should the Trump administration imposes a hefty tariff on the metal. Canadian officials play down talk of export taxes, saying they want to press U.S. officials for a carve out. (paul.vieira@wsj.com, @paulvieira)

--

Gold Futures Slip as U.S. Economic Data Further Damps Rate Cut Hopes — Market Talk

1653 GMT - Gold futures slip after U.S. economic data pointed to hotter-than-expected inflation. Futures are down 0.4% at $2,920 a troy ounce, having reached a record $2,968.50 in the prior session. Consumer prices in January rose 3% from a year earlier, more than the 2.9% that economists were expecting and lowering the chances of a Federal Reserve interest rate cut any time soon. Higher rates typically damp investor enthusiasm for non-interest bearing bullion. Potential U.S. tariffs add upside risk to inflation in upcoming quarters, but there are some encouraging signs that housing costs will slow meaningfully later in 2025 and keep the door open to cuts in the second half of the year, ING analysts say in a note. (joseph.hoppe@wsj.com)

--

Quebec Premier Floats Export Tax on U.S.-Bound Aluminum — Market Talk

1058 ET - Quebec Premier Francois Legault suggests that Canada might want to slap an export tax on aluminum should President Trump follow through on imposing a 25% tariff on all imported steel and aluminum. Canada is by far the biggest seller of foreign aluminum to the U.S., and the bulk of Canadian aluminum is in the province of Quebec. The U.S. "really needs us" on aluminum, says Legault, who is in Washington with other Canadian premiers to persuade lawmakers and officials about the potential fallout on tariffs on Canadian imports. An export tax on products like aluminum might get Trump's attention, he says. "We have to be careful," Legault adds, "[because] we want to have a deal with no tariffs." (paul.vieira@wsj.com; @paulvieira)

--

Grains Mixed Following Tepid WASDE — Market Talk

0951 ET - CBOT grains are mixed, with no confirmation of higher corn demand and no changes to the size of the U.S. crops in Tuesday's WASDE report. Counteracting the mediocre data is the USDA's announcement of new flash sales of corn and soybeans to unknown destinations, with 130,320 metric tons of corn and 120,000 tons of soybeans sold, both for delivery in 2024/25. "Unknown destinations" is regarded by agricultural traders as a moniker for China, although that isn't necessarily the case. Corn and wheat turn higher in early trading, with corn up 0.6% and wheat rising 0.3%. Soybeans are down 0.5%. (kirk.maltais@wsj.com)

--

Extended Chilly Weather Keeps U.S. Natural Gas Futures Up — Market Talk

0918 ET - U.S. natural gas futures are steady to higher with frigid temperatures for much of the U.S. expected to continue next week, keeping heating demand at high levels. "The market is now forced to price in a storage deficit that could persist through the shoulder period given this unexpected cold spell that will be moving through the nation's mid-section through the rest of this week and much of next week," Ritterbusch says in a note. A below-average storage withdrawal expected for last week is likely to be followed by a string of above-average inventory draws, "rendering tomorrow's EIA storage report almost meaningless," the firm adds. The Nymex front month is up 1% at $3.553/mmBtu. (anthony.harrup@wsj.com)

--

Oil Futures Move Lower Ahead of EIA Inventory Data — Market Talk 0855 ET - Oil futures are down after an industry group reports a large build in U.S. crude inventories, while OPEC holds its 2025 oil demand growth estimate at 1.45 million barrels a day. The API said crude stocks increased by 9 million barrels last week, analysts note, which follows an 8.7 million barrel build reported for the previous week by the EIA. The EIA's data for last week are due at 10:30 ET. "Crude stock builds are expected in the U.S., but the recent rate of building is more than expected," TP ICAP's Scott Shelton says in a note. "I think that we may see a slowing in the builds in February for the U.S. as exports will be stronger," he adds. WTI is down 1.2% at $72.43 a barrel, and Brent is off 1% at $76.23. (anthony.harrup@wsj.com)

--

Base Metal Prices Mixed as Tariffs Pile Pressure on U.S. Economy — Market Talk

1125 GMT - Base metal prices are mixed, with LME three-month copper up 0.3% at $9,387 a metric ton and LME three-month aluminum down 0.9% at $2,615.50 a ton. Tariff pressures are building for the U.S. economy, BMI says, which could pressure industrial metal demand lower. President Trump's 25% tariffs on aluminum and steel imports could prompt further escalations, it notes. Further tariffs, including the proposed blanket Mexican and Canadian tariffs, could also strengthen the Midwest premium and widen the price difference between U.S. and LME prices. Tariffs will help boost domestic steel production, but it will be a challenge to significantly increase output, BMI writes. The U.S. aluminum industry isn't globally competitive given high costs, and imports account for around 50% of total demand, suggesting significant pass-through effects, BMI adds. (joseph.hoppe@wsj.com)

--

Palm Oil Rises, Supported by Tighter Supply, Soft Ringgit — Market Talk

1009 GMT - Palm oil prices rose, driven by tightened supply and a softer Malaysian ringgit, Darren Lim, commodities strategist at Phillip Nova writes in a note. The 17% drop in production in January, according to the Malaysian Palm Oil Board, reflects tightening supply, driving the price rally along with expectations of heightened demand ahead of the Ramadan festive season, Lim says. A weaker ringgit has also made palm oil more attractive to foreign buyers, Lim adds. The Bursa Malaysia Derivatives contract for April delivery rose MYR31 to MYR4,624/ton. (kimberley.kao@wsj.com)

--

Europe's Gas Retreats After Hitting Two-Year Highs — Market Talk

0939 GMT - European natural-gas prices retreat after reaching their highest level in two years, with the benchmark Dutch TTF contract down 3.1% to 55.90 euros a megawatt hour. "The rally in European gas prices took a breather amid concerns by traders that the recent gains were overdone," ANZ Research analysts say. "Nevertheless, the issues which have been driving prices higher remain intact." Cold weather and low wind speeds have significantly increased fuel demand in recent weeks, leading to faster-than-expected depletion of storage facilities and raising concerns over summer refill rates. Meanwhile, the European Commission is considering a temporary cap on EU gas prices due to their recent surge, the Financial Times reports. (giulia.petroni@wsj.com)

--

Iron Ore Higher Amid Solid Demand-Supply Dynamics — Market Talk

0325 GMT - Iron ore is higher in early Asia trading thanks to solid demand and supply, Nanhua Futures analysts say in a note. Chinese steel factories are likely to speed up operation resumptions in the wake of the Lunar New Year holiday, the analysts say. Still, it is unclear if domestic demand can be sustained longer term, especially after some factories placed pre-orders to catch the window before additional trade tariffs take effect, they note. The most-traded iron-ore contract on the Dalian Commodity Exchange is up 0.55% at CNY825.5/ton. (tracy.qu@wsj.com)

--

Crude Palm Oil Prices Likely to Remain Stable in February — Market Talk

0206 GMT - Crude palm oil prices are likely to remain stable in February, hovering around between MYR4,500/ton to MYR5,000/ton. The prices are seen to be supported by restocking ahead of the Ramadan festive season as well as lower output, MIDF Research says in a note. January CPO average prices strengthened by 24% on year. Malaysia's palm oil output recovery is expected to be slow, with only 1% growth expected in 2025, due to biological tree rest and adverse weather, it adds. Large planters, such as IOI Corp., SD Guthrie, and Genting Plantations, could benefit from elevated CPO prices, it adds. MIDF maintains a tactical positive rating on the Malaysian plantation sector, expecting high CPO prices to persist at least until 1H. (yingxian.wong@wsj.com)

--

Aluminum Falls; Volatility Expected to Remain High — Market Talk

0138 GMT - Aluminum falls in early Asian trade. Volatility in the aluminum market is likely to remain high after U.S. President Trump announced tariffs on U.S. imports, ANZ Research analysts write in a note. On Monday, Trump announced 25% tariffs on imports of steel and aluminum to the U.S. There could be upward pressure on prices, as the U.S. aluminum industries are expected to struggle to avoid the tariffs in the short term, the analysts say. The three-month LME aluminum contract is down 0.6% at $2,627.00/ton. (amanda.lee@wsj.com)

--

Gold Edges Higher Amid Mixed Signals — Market Talk

2336 GMT - Gold edges higher in early Asian trade amid mixed signals. Higher Treasury yields and a stronger U.S. dollar offset safe-haven demand on concerns of trade wars, says Fawad Razaqzada, market analyst at City Index and FOREX.com, in an email. Meanwhile, gold has reached extreme levels with the relative strength index showing overbought signals across multiple timeframes, based on charts, the analyst says. These RSI levels suggest that a pullback or consolidation may be on the horizon, the analyst adds. Spot gold is 0.1% higher at $2,899.83/oz. (ronnie.harui@wsj.com)

Write to Barcelona Editors at barcelonaeditors@dowjones.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250212010993:0-opec-sticks-to-oil-demand-view-flags-u-s-trade-policy-risks-commodities-roundup/)
