---
title: "Dun & Bradstreet Announces Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2024 Earnings Release and Conference Call"
date: "2025-02-08 05:54:00"
summary: "Dun &amp; Bradstreet Announces Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2024 Earnings Release and Conference CallJACKSONVILLE, Fla.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--February 07, 2025--Dun &amp; Bradstreet Holdings, Inc. (\"Dun &amp; Bradstreet\") , a leading global provider of business decisioning data and analytics, today announced that it will release fourth quarter and full-year 2024 earnings before..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Dun & Bradstreet Announces Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2024 Earnings Release and Conference Call

JACKSONVILLE, Fla.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--February 07, 2025--

Dun & Bradstreet Holdings, Inc. ("Dun & Bradstreet") , a leading global provider of business decisioning data and analytics, today announced that it will release fourth quarter and full-year 2024 earnings before the market opens on February 20, 2025. A conference call to discuss its results will follow at 8:30 a.m. Eastern Time that same day.

Participants may access the conference call using the following online registration link. Analysts planning to participate in the Q&A can register in advance here. Additionally, there will be several slides accompanying the webcast. Please go to Dun & Bradstreet's investor relations website at least 15 minutes prior to the call to register, as well as download and install any necessary software. The conference call replay will be available via webcast through Dun & Bradstreet's investor relations website.

About Dun & Bradstreet

Dun & Bradstreet, a leading global provider of business decisioning data and analytics, enables companies around the world to improve their business performance. Dun & Bradstreet's Data Cloud fuels solutions and delivers insights that empower customers to accelerate revenue, lower cost, mitigate risk, and transform their businesses. Since 1841, companies of every size have relied on Dun & Bradstreet to help them manage risk and reveal opportunity. For more information on Dun & Bradstreet, please visit www.dnb.com.

View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20250207585660/en/

CONTACT: Investor Contact:

904-648-8006

IR@dnb.com

Media Contact:

Ginny Walthour

904-528-1506

walthourg@dnb.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250207010887:0/)
