---
title: "News Highlights: Top Company News of the Day - Tuesday at 7 PM ET"
date: "2025-02-12 08:15:00"
summary: "Lyft Sees Growth Slowdown in Gross BookingsLyft posted a quarterly profit of $61.7 million compared with a loss of $26.3 million a year ago. Wall Street analysts had expected a loss of $3.4 million.Super Micro Computer Slashes Outlook, Sets Lofty 2026 TargetChief Executive Charles Liang said the company expects to..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

**Lyft Sees Growth Slowdown in Gross Bookings**

Lyft posted a quarterly profit of $61.7 million compared with a loss of $26.3 million a year ago. Wall Street analysts had expected a loss of $3.4 million.

**Super Micro Computer Slashes Outlook, Sets Lofty 2026 Target**

Chief Executive Charles Liang said the company expects to hit $40 billion in revenue in fiscal 2026.

**Zillow Outlook Collides With Subdued Housing Market**

Zillow Group posted fourth-quarter revenue growth and projected gains would continue despite challenges including high mortgage rates that have dampened the housing market.

**DoorDash's stock rallies as demand forecast tops expectations**

Food-delivery app DoorDash Inc. on Tuesday forecast a key demand metric to come in above Wall Street's expectations for the first quarter, as it adds more grocery stores to its platform to complement its core restaurant business.

**IAC Hopes to Build Monetization of Dotdash Meredith, Grow Care.com, CFO Says**

The media and internet holding company is ready to move on from home-services company Angi, its chief financial officer said.

**Carlyle Targets Wealthy Investors With Its Expansion Plans**

The firm aims to boost its professional ranks catering to wealthy clients by 50% this year following a 65% gain in assets from individuals in 2024.

**The Switcheroo That Let Kanye West Advertise Swastika Shirts During the Super Bowl**

The controversial rapper, who goes by Ye, bought local ads promoting his clothing website-then changed what the site sold after TV stations approved the ad.

**Avis Budget CEO Joe Ferraro to Step Down, Brian Choi Named Successor**

Avis Budget's Chief Executive Officer Joe Ferraro is stepping down and will be succeeded by Brian Choi, its chief transformation officer.

**TPG Sets High Fundraising Sights for 2025**

Private-equity firm TPG is setting up for a banner fundraising year in 2025 with a goal of doubling its managed assets over the next several years.

**Shopify Profit Doubles After Revenue Surges During Holidays**

The results reflect that Shopify's platform, which provides the backbone for online storefronts, is playing a critical, if unseen to consumers, role to a wider swath of ecommerce transactions.

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250211013020:0-news-highlights-top-company-news-of-the-day-tuesday-at-7-pm-et/)
