---
title: "Materion Corporation to Announce Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2024 Financial Results on February 19"
date: "2025-02-11 05:25:00"
summary: "Materion Corporation to Announce Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2024 Financial Results on February 19MAYFIELD HEIGHTS, Ohio--(BUSINESS WIRE)--February 10, 2025--Materion Corporation is scheduled to release its fourth quarter and full year 2024 financial results on February 19, 2025, before the opening of the New York Stock Exchange. The company will..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Materion Corporation to Announce Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2024 Financial Results on February 19

MAYFIELD HEIGHTS, Ohio--(BUSINESS WIRE)--February 10, 2025--

Materion Corporation is scheduled to release its fourth quarter and full year 2024 financial results on February 19, 2025, before the opening of the New York Stock Exchange. The company will hold a conference call with investors at 10:00 AM ET that morning.

Jugal Vijayvargiya, President and Chief Executive Officer, and Shelly Chadwick, Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer, will represent Materion Corporation on the call.

Conference Call and Slide Presentation

* To participate, please dial (888) 506-0062 or (973) 528-0011 for international participants and enter participant passcode 357106. Please be sure to dial in 10 minutes before the scheduled start time.
* A live webcast will be available on the company's website (www.materion.com). To access the webcast, click on Events & Presentations under the Investor Relations page.

A recorded playback of the call will be available until March 5, 2025, at (877) 481-4010 or (919) 882-2331 for international calls; replay ID number is 51061. An archive of the call will also be available on the Company's website.

About Materion

Materion Corporation is a global leader in advanced materials solutions for high-performance industries including semiconductor, industrial, aerospace & defense, energy and automotive. With nearly 100 years of expertise in specialty engineered alloy systems, inorganic chemicals and powders, precious and non-precious metals, beryllium and beryllium composites, and precision filters and optical coatings, Materion partners with customers to enable breakthrough solutions that move the world forward. Headquartered in Mayfield Heights, Ohio, the company employs more than 3,000 talented people worldwide, serving customers in more than 60 countries.

View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20250210249645/en/

CONTACT: Investors:

Kyle Kelleher

(216) 383-4931

kyle.kelleher@materion.com

Media:

Jason Saragian

(216) 816-6296

jason.saragian@materion.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250210010533:0/)
