---
title: "House of the Week: Lake Keowee's Priciest Home for Sale — WSJ"
date: "2025-02-08 04:25:00"
summary: "By Sarah PaynterThe specsList price: $9.25 million Size: 9,500 square feet 6 bedrooms, 6 baths Land: 1.6 acres European architecture aficionadosDuring his travels while working for the U.S. Treasury, John Hallock would often visited financial institutions in Rome, Paris and Frankfurt. Now retired, John and his wife, Anni Hallock, would..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Sarah Paynter

The specs

* List price: $9.25 million
* Size: 9,500 square feet
* 6 bedrooms, 6 baths
* Land: 1.6 acres

European architecture aficionados

During his travels while working for the U.S. Treasury, John Hallock would often visited financial institutions in Rome, Paris and Frankfurt. Now retired, John and his wife, Anni Hallock, would spend extra time before or after these trips visiting Switzerland, touring Unesco World Heritage sites and hiking or cycling around.

So when they left Potomac, Md., to buy their retirement home on Lake Keowee in South Carolina, the Hallocks chose a waterfront house teeming with European-inspired architecture, said Anni, a retired clinical research nurse at the National Institutes of Health.

Party palace

The limestone-and-brick house, locally known as "the Castle," has become the site of three legendary parties each year.

Every fall, a dozen guests dress in traditional German lederhosen and dirndls indulge in rotisserie chicken, pretzels, sauerkraut, beer and wine, said Anni. Celebrations begin with German dance music, but guests usually end up line-dancing to country music, said Anni.

At their "terrace party" in the spring, a live band plays on the terrace, which the Hallocks outfitted with a hot tub, fire pit and bed swing. In the summer, a country music playlist blares from the property's extensive sound system, and about 200 people float up to their dock for sliders or a potluck-style feast, said John.

Can't-miss features

The kitchen has a barrel-vaulted ceiling, and its island has a pewter countertop. Over the Lacanche range hangs a circa-1788 fireback used as a backsplash. "The whole thing really has an old-world flair to it," said John.

The great room staircase's wrought-iron railing — modeled after an antique Italian railing on the primary bedroom's balcony — was so heavy it had to be carted in by crane, said Beau Sylvester of Herlong Sotheby's International Realty. Sylvester is sharing the listing with Michael Schultz.

The primary bedroom has two walk-in closets with mirrored cabinets and large shoe racks.

Bonus points

The Hallocks plan to start fresh in their new home, so they are selling the house furnished, said John. The house comes with a $50,000 boat, art collected in Europe and antiques passed through the Hallock's family.

Pieces they are leaving behind include a 19th-century Belgian credenza in the dining room, a Swiss tapestry hung in the 1,000-bottle wine cellar, and an 18th century French wardrobe inherited from John's parents, he said.

Reason for selling?

The Hallocks plan to downsize to a smaller house in the same community. They haven't yet bought their new home and may travel for a few months beforehand.

"At this point it is more house than we need," said John. "We may just take off a few months and travel and not worry about the next house and see what happens."

Market snapshot

The Cliffs at Keowee Springs, where the house is located, is an exclusive, gated community with year-round boating, golfing and upscale dining, said Sylvester. Many buyers on Lake Keowee are looking for second homes, retirement homes or investment properties, and about 90% of deals there are done in cash, he said. Last year, a home on Lake Keowee sold for $10 million, according to Richard Seay, director of sales at the Cliffs.

Though the Hallocks improved the house, most of its price increase is due to market changes and increased construction costs, John said. Today, the land alone is worth a few million dollars, and the estimated price to rebuild the circa-2011 house is around $12 million to $14 million, said Sylvester.

Write to Sarah Paynter at Sarah.paynter@wsj.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250207009616:0/)
