---
title: "Global Equities Roundup: Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-11 17:12:00"
summary: "The latest Market Talks covering Equities. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.0912 GMT - The outcome BPER Banca's takeover offer will depend on how the market digests the all-share deal, Citi says in a research note. BPER is the latest Italian bank to join the recent surge..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The latest Market Talks covering Equities. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.

0912 GMT - The outcome BPER Banca's takeover offer will depend on how the market digests the all-share deal, Citi says in a research note. BPER is the latest Italian bank to join the recent surge in M&A activity in Italy. The lender's bid for Banca Popolare di Sondrio shouldn't be surprising based on their common product companies. The banks share a main shareholder, and there is a low acceptance threshold, so the deal could be successful, analyst Azzurra Guelfi writes. Still, "the market yet again has an important role and will likely look for a higher price while debating the benefits for minority shareholders." Meanwhile, questions remain on BPER's financial metrics, which led Citi to cut its stock rating to hold from buy. BPER shares have fallen 8% and Sondrio's have risen 3% since Thursday night's announcement. (elena.vardon@wsj.com)

0859 GMT - The Indian equities selloff has opened up opportunities, HSBC strategists say. They see the software sector as showing improving growth prospects, adding that it stands to gain from a weak rupee. Lenders can benefit from less restrictive monetary policy, and they also like consumer names that can tap India's rural demand recovery or markets overseas. They favor electronics maker Dixon, which is supported by industry and policy tailwinds. Automaker Maruti Suzuki stands out for its export potential and rural market positioning, while insurance platform PB Fintech can grow at 2X-3X the industry rate thanks to competitive advantages. HSBC also likes Godrej Properties, whose large land bank lets it grow in tough times, and LTIMindtree, which is well-placed for rising IT services demand. HSBC has buy calls on all five. (fabiana.negrinochoa@wsj.com)

0858 GMT - Intesa Sanpaolo is best placed in the sector as most of its peers are involved in consolidation as acquirers or targets, Citi says in a research note. "In our view, the best way to play the M&A theme in Italy at this stage is through Intesa, as it is not involved in the current proposed deals, has no execution risk linked to pending transactions, has a strong industrial proposition with a strong fee-geared business," analyst Azzurra Guelfi writes. She also notes the bank's focus on long-term sustainable and high profitability and its strong capital position. The group could also potentially gain customer and market share organically as competitors focus on M&A transactions, which are set to attract high scrutiny from shareholders and regulators, Guelfi adds. Intesa shares are up 13% year to date. (elena.vardon@wsj.com)

0843 GMT - There is some risk that Japan's 4Q nominal GDP growth will miss consensus views for a 1.1% on-quarter rise, Vis Nayar and Ray Farris at Eastspring Investments say. But the expected rise in growth in 1H backs their constructive view on Japanese equities, which tend to trend in line with nominal GDP. Inflation surprised to the upside in December, and most indicators suggest reflation will continue in 1H at least, CIO Nayar and chief economist Farris say. Crucially, wage growth rose in 4Q and is tipped to climb more in the coming Shunto wage negotiations, they say. If the Shunto delivers faster wage growth, real incomes should rise and support a recovery in real consumption growth. Factor in sustained inflation and nominal GDP growth should stay close to 1%, they add. (fabiana.negrinochoa@wsj.com)

0833 GMT - TUI's first-quarter profit growth is encouraging, but weaker EBIT at the company's markets and airline segment could cause some nervousness, Barclays analysts say in a research note. The German travel operator's markets and airlines unit posted a 38% wider EBIT loss in the first quarter. At the same time, TUI's bookings and average selling prices normalised for both the winter and summer. Barclays says it expects TUI is on track to deliver on its fiscal-year guidance, but with no change to guidance and with nearly 70% of its summer program yet to be sold, consensus estimates are unlikely to materially change. Shares trade 6.7% lower to 7.97 euros.(pierre.bertrand@wsj.com)

0834 GMT - Mediobanca's strong profit and revenue beats, along with its outlook confirmation and improved 2026 targets, confirm its franchise potential, Citi says in a research note. The market should have a positive reaction to the Italian bank's results, which has recently rejected a takeover approach from peer Monte dei Paschi, analyst Azzurra Guelfi writes. "We would expect the market to continue to re-rate the stock," she says. The results could also push a higher premium for Monte dei Paschi's current offer, which Citi remains skeptical on, Guelfi notes. Shares open 2.1% higher at 16.90 euros. (elena.vardon@wsj.com)

0826 GMT - BYD's AI-driven smart-driving technology is positive for companies in its supply chain, Citi analysts say in a research note. The analysts see upside of at least 3%-5% to component maker BYD Electronic's auto-business revenue over 2025 and 2026, the analysts say. However, the recent rally for BYD and its related stocks may have already priced in most of the impact, they add. Citi sees Will Semiconductor, Sunny Optical Technology and BYD Electronic as major beneficiaries from the advanced driver assistance system theme, given the big contribution in revenue and profit from the auto business. (tracy.qu@wsj.com)

0825 GMT - Bellway is on track to deliver on full-year guidance at the halfway mark but this robust performance is at odds with its subdued share price performance, RBC Capital Markets analyst Anthony Codling says in a note. The underlying housing market appears to be stronger than what investors think it is, Codling says. Despite a rise in mortgage rates, customer demand and pricing remained firm. The forward order book's value of 1.31 billion pounds is 30% above 2024's levels, and implies a forward order book average sale price that is 9% higher year-on-year, he says. Shares are down 6.3% at 2,402 pence and are down 3.6% in the year to date. (anthony.orunagoriainoff@dowjones.com)

0823 GMT - U.K. housebuilder Bellway appears to be in the early stages of a recovery, Quilter Cheviot analyst Oli Creasey says in a note. Although its house prices rose around 0.5%, this is a little behind some peers including Persimmon which reported 5% growth, Creasey says. Bellway expects operating margins to improve modestly to 11% from 10%. Though positive, it represents the scale of the challenge the company and other housebuilders face, Creasey says. Its operating margin in 2022 was around 18% so there is still a long way to go before it, or the industry, fully recovers, he says. "The mortgage market and wider economic conditions continue to have an impact on customer demand and are likely to be a headwind for Bellway for some time yet," he says. (anthony.orunagoriainoff@dowjones.com)

0821 GMT - Hong Kong's benchmark Hang Seng Index closed 1.1% lower at 21294.86. Chinese equities' strong rally over the past month could be prompting some market participants to lock in some profits now, said IG market strategist Yeap Jun Rong. Adding to that impulse is continued concerns around U.S. tariffs. "Given that U.S. 'reciprocal' tariffs will be expected over the coming days and with trade imbalances highlighted as a key basis for the move, China is clearly in the crosshairs," he wrote in an email. Among decliners, Geely Automobile fell 10%, Xinyi Solar lost 7.2% and Nongfu Spring shed 6.0%. Meanwhile, Sunny Optical Technology rose 3.0% and Zijin Mining Group added 1.5%. (amanda.lee@wsj.com)

0819 GMT - BP's forward-looking guidance is a little soft compared with market expectations, RBC Capital Markets analysts Biraj Borkhataria and Adnan Dhanani write. The British energy major expects first-quarter hydrocarbon production to fall by around 90,000 oil equivalent barrels a day due to divestments. However, investors had expected a production increase, they write. BP's 2025 corporate cost guidance of around $1 billion is roughly $200 million higher than consensus, they add. Shares trade up 0.4% at 467 pence. (adam.whittaker@wsj.com)

0818 GMT - Mediobanca's new targets for 2026 imply earnings per share that are more than 4% higher than current consensus expectations, Jefferies says in a research note after the Italian bank's quarterly results. Revenue is now expected at 4 billion euros, against 3.8 billion euros previously, with over 1.4 billion euros in net profit. The guidance was outlined alongside its results for the fourth quarter of 2024, in which it posted a profit beat thanks to strong fees in its corporate and investment bank and backed its earnings per share growth guidance for 2025. Shares in Mediobanca, which recently rejected a takeover offer from peer Monte dei Paschi, rose 2% at market open. (elena.vardon@wsj.com)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250211001919:0/)
