---
title: "Auto & Transport Roundup: Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-11 05:50:00"
summary: "The latest Market Talks covering the Auto and Transport sector. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires at 4:20 ET, 12:20 ET and 16:50 ET.1534 ET - Lyft's recent revenue growth could be unsustainable due to shifting labor market conditions and reduced driver incentives, Third Bridge analyst Albie Amankona says in..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The latest Market Talks covering the Auto and Transport sector. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires at 4:20 ET, 12:20 ET and 16:50 ET.

1534 ET - Lyft's recent revenue growth could be unsustainable due to shifting labor market conditions and reduced driver incentives, Third Bridge analyst Albie Amankona says in a research note. The ride-hailing app is facing mounting pressure in its core ridesharing business, and it isn't expected to regain significant market share against Uber Technologies anytime soon, Amankona adds. Overall, Lyft's biggest growth opportunity lies in media advertising, or a potential deal with Amazon.com. "An acquisition of Lyft could give Amazon a major boost in the autonomous vehicle race." Owning Lyft would give Amazon more control over pricing and competition, especially against rivals like Waymo. Plus, integrating Lyft could enhance Amazon's existing businesses, like Prime and Whole Foods, creating a new ecosystem for cross-promotion, Amankona adds. Lyft shares rise 5.5%, with Amazon shares up 2%. (sabela.ojea@wsj.com; @sabelaojeaguix)

1049 ET - Corporate bonds issued by companies within U.S. tech, auto and basic materials sectors have a higher exposure to foreign revenue and are more vulnerable to tariffs implemented by President Trump, BNP Paribas credit strategists say in a note. Issuers within services sectors, however, such as healthcare and cruise companies, have lower foreign sales and are better placed to avoid the negative impacts of tariffs, the strategists say. (miriam.mukuru@wsj.com)

0830 ET - Maersk's fourth quarter showed strong performance across all divisions, driven by volume growth and high freight rates, but the outlook for container shipping remains uncertain in 2025, AlphaValue analyst Helene Coumes writes. The outlook depends on the reopening of the Red Sea, which will impact supply. Shorter routes that will become available when the route reopens, coupled with new vessel deliveries, should add total capacity of up to 4 million containers, Coumes adds. However, carriers can manage capacity through sailing at slower speeds and gradual scrapping of older vessels, which was low in 2024. On the demand side, Maersk is optimistic, anticipating volume growth of 4%, although higher U.S. tariffs could hit final demand and trade. Maersk shares trade 1.7% higher at 11,475 Danish kroner. (dominic.chopping@wsj.com)

0735 ET - Porsche's 2025 outlook disappointed, with the carmaker guiding for 10%-12% return on sales, a sharp 350 basis point shortfall to consensus, Citi analysts Harald C Hendrikse and Soumava Banerjee write. The estimate would also be equivalent to an EBIT 1.5 billion euros lower than consensus expectations, they say. "While Porsche highlights 800 million euros of additional costs, this doesn't fully account for the shortfall, suggesting execution gaps." Porsche is a luxury brand and is not generating profitability in line with that, Citi says, adding that it is hard to see why investors would assume Porsche profitability can get close to the 17%-19% range set at the IPO. Citi rates Porsche stock at buy with a 82 euro target price. Shares trade 1.1% higher at 56.16 euros. (dominic.chopping@wsj.com)

0618 ET - Porsche's recently issued 2025 outlook implies a significant reset of near-term expectations, with margin guidance of 10%-12% versus consensus at 14.4%, Berenberg analyst Romain Gourvil writes. Although strategic readjustments at the luxury car maker were largely anticipated, related investments seem higher than expected, he adds. "This may add pressure to near-term multiples until Porsche can demonstrate it can sustainably deliver margins of 17%-plus, which is likely now to be heavily discounted by investors." Berenberg lowers its operating profit estimates by around 20% for 2025-26, downgrades its rating to hold from buy and lowers its price target to 62 euros from 75 euros. Shares trade 1.5% higher at 56.38 euros. (dominic.chopping@wsj.com)

0327 ET - Chinese automakers may take the lead in incorporating AI innovations and democratizing these technologies in mass-market cars, said Paul Gong, UBS head of China autos research. "After the DeepSeek surprise during the Chinese New Year, intelligence initiatives could remain a key theme among auto stocks," he says. Traditional carmakers will likely announce more collaborations with AI companies in the coming months ride the momentum, he adds. Gong believes that the technological edge in the auto sector will likely shift from electrification to intelligence with rising awareness and adoption of AI. He notes that smart cockpits powered by AI algorithms could provide a sustainable competitive edge, helping automakers gain market share. Meanwhile, AI could gradually lead to higher manufacturing productivity, boosting carmakers' margins in the long term, he adds. (sherry.qin@wsj.com)

0150 ET - Mahindra & Mahindra remains Nomura's top original equipment manufacturer pick in India's auto and auto-parts sector, the brokerage's analysts say in a research report. Consumers' initial response to the automaker's battery EVs is strong, say the analysts. They see upside potential to Nomura's monthly sales estimates of 3,000 units for FY 2026 and 7,000 units for FY 2027. With further traction in demand for Mahindra & Mahindra's tractors and market share, the brokerage lifts its FY 2025 growth estimate for the company to 10% from 7%. It raises the stock's target price to INR3,681.00 from INR3,664.00 with an unchanged buy rating. Shares are 0.3% lower at INR3,189.35. (ronnie.harui@wsj.com)

2232 ET - HD Korea Shipbuilding & Offshore Engineering seems undervalued given the higher valuation of its unlisted subsidiary, HD Hyundai Samho Heavy Industries, Nomura analyst Eon Hwang writes in a note. Hwang values the subsidiary at KRW10 trillion, up from KRW9 trillion previously, which accounts for 48% of the parent's overall value. He expects operating profit of the subsidiary to increase 21% to KRW1 trillion for 2025 thanks to higher shipbuilding prices, despite a possible drop in new contract wins this year due to last year's high comparison base and limited capacity. Nomura raises its stock target for the parent by 17% to KRW280,000 and keeps a buy rating. Shares are 1.1% lower at KRW223,000. (kwanwoo.jun@wsj.com)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250210011300:0/)
