---
title: "News Highlights: Top Global Markets News of the Day - Thursday at 1 AM ET"
date: "2025-02-13 14:15:00"
summary: "Dow, S&amp;P 500 Fall After Inflation Hits 3%The S&amp;P 500 and Dow industrials fell after CPI rose 3% in January from a year earlier. The Nasdaq Composite edged higher.Producer Inflation Expected to Hold Firm in JanuaryThe consensus estimate is a 0.2% rise in the producer price index in January, which..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

**Dow, S&P 500 Fall After Inflation Hits 3%**

The S&P 500 and Dow industrials fell after CPI rose 3% in January from a year earlier. The Nasdaq Composite edged higher.

**Producer Inflation Expected to Hold Firm in January**

The consensus estimate is a 0.2% rise in the producer price index in January, which would match the increase in December.

**Trump's tariffs could make international stocks more attractive than U.S. investments. Here's why.**

U.S. investors are looking abroad in pursuit of higher stock-market returns.

**Why Dealers Are Flying Gold Bars by Plane From London to New York**

Tariff fears have roiled gold markets, pushing JPMorgan and others to stash bullion on passenger planes to sell at record prices.

**BOE's Greene Says Key Rate Must Remain Restrictive to Tame Inflation**

Supply constraints rather than soft demand caused recent weakness in the U.K. economy, suggesting to BOE member Megan Greene that borrowing costs will have to stay restrictive to tame inflation.

**Hot inflation report, rising Treasury yields warn the market's bull run could be in trouble. Here's how to read it.**

Investors worry the Federal Reserve might have gone too far in cutting interest rates

**Inflation Heated Up in January, Freezing the Fed**

Consumer prices rose 3%, extending a recent pattern of increases at the start of the year that likely derails the prospect for Federal Reserve rate cuts anytime soon.

**'Stagflation-lite?' Economy may face fresh threat of slower growth and rising inflation.**

Trump vows to unleash the U.S. economy, but his agenda is creating lots of uncertainty.

**Bank of Canada Cut Rates to Shield Economy From Possible Trade Fallout, Minutes Say**

A need to fuel faster growth and shield the economy from U.S. trade-policy uncertainty led senior Bank of Canada officials to agree on a quarter-point rate cut last month, according to minutes summarizing central bank deliberations.

**Trump Reciprocal-Tariff Vow Further Breaks From Global Trading Norms**

The president on Thursday is expected to outline reciprocal tariffs on nations that have imposed levies on U.S. exports, the White House said.

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250213000930:0-news-highlights-top-global-markets-news-of-the-day-thursday-at-1-am-et/)
