---
title: "Leaked Audio: Here's What JPMorgan CEO Dimon Said About Hiring and Remote Work — Barrons.com"
date: "2025-02-14 02:06:00"
summary: "By Rebecca UngarinoOn Wednesday, Jamie Dimon, chief executive of JPMorgan Chase, met with employees in Columbus, Ohio and celebrated a newly opened bank branch there. Dimon held an internal town-hall meeting where employees asked him about workplace issues, Barron's earlier reported.Dimon's focus of two lengthy answers was remote work, hiring,..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Rebecca Ungarino

On Wednesday, Jamie Dimon, chief executive of JPMorgan Chase, met with employees in Columbus, Ohio and celebrated a newly opened bank branch there. Dimon held an internal town-hall meeting where employees asked him about workplace issues, Barron's earlier reported.

Dimon's focus of two lengthy answers was remote work, hiring, and efficiencies he wants to see at the company he has led for two decades.

Employees in recent weeks have expressed frustration with the bank's five-day in-office requirement, effective in March, as well as smaller raises and bonuses than they expected after a year of record-high revenue and profits.

Employees are on edge, too, as the bank starts to cut jobs as part of a series of planned layoff rounds this year, Barron's reported. In a statement on Wednesday, a spokesperson for JPMorgan said the cuts are "part of our regular management of the business and impacts a very small number of employees," and that the firm's strategy is unchanged.

Dimon's remarks on Wednesday seemed unusually candid for a head of a major public company addressing a large group of their employees. Though perhaps not for Dimon. He has become known for his plain-spoken public remarks on issues — from public policy and capitalism to cryptocurrencies and shareholder meetings — in his nearly two decades running the largest U.S. lender.

Here's what he told employees on Wednesday.

An employee asked Dimon whether he would be open to giving managers discretion over their teams' in-office work. The employee said that because he works on a team across several countries and time zones, five days in the office doesn't make sense for him.

Dimon: I'm going to give you a complete answer. There is no chance that I will leave it up to managers...Zero chance. The abuse that took place is extraordinary. You may be a great manager, but...I'm going to give you examples of how bad it got. OK?

Before I do that, 60% of Americans went to work everyday during Covid, and somehow, people who work in places...your manufacturing; who delivered your food? Who got the food? Police, firemen, our branches. A lot of you had to come into work, and stuff like that. So the notion that everybody was working from home, and it's great — that was not true. We've always had work from home. I'm not against working from home, OK?

We have 10% of our people, mostly in mortgage, and certain call centers, who work from home. We started a virtual call center in Detroit, now we have one in Baltimore. But it's very efficient. It's trackable in a very specific way about how efficient it is, OK?

And also — it's a free world. So I'm not against — if you want to have a company working from home, that's fine. Now, your manager moved to Florida. We never made a promise that it would be forever. That's their problem, not mine. So people said, 'We moved, we didn't move' — we always told people that we were going to be a work-from-the-office type of company.

And so we allowed three days and two days. But here are the problems, OK? And they are substantial...the young generation is being damaged by this. They may or may not be in your particular staff, but they are being left behind. They're being left behind socially, ideas, meeting people. In fact, my guess is most of you live in communities a hell of a lot less diverse than this room.

And so it had all these kinds of effects. We actually see these other kids slowly being left behind, and I won't do that to younger kids. Now, it's hard to say...you come in, but not your bosses. And the other thing, which was full of sh — , which I couldn't stand listening to anymore, is, 'Well, if I come in, I just Zoomed to people somewhere.' So, I also said what you can't do — which is, we have people Zooming in from different floors. If you're in the building, go to the meeting.

We also had — and you know I'm right about this one — ...a lot of you were on the f-- Zoom...and you were doing the following: looking at your mail, sending texts to each other about what an a-- the other person is, not paying attention, not reading your stuff, and if you don't think that slows down efficiency, creativity, creates rudeness — it does.

When I found out that people were doing that — you don't do that in my goddamn meetings. If you're going to meet with me, you've got my attention, you've got my focus, I don't bring my goddamn phone, I'm not sending texts to people. It simply doesn't work. It doesn't work for creativity, it slows down decision-making.

And don't give me this s — that work-from-home-Friday works. I call a lot of people on Fridays, and there's not a goddamn person you can get a hold of.

And remember, the team's got to work...I manage a company, and we have an operating committee meeting, and we're not all there. Sometimes, there's people Zooming in from somewhere, they travel, but all day, we're talking to each other — what about this, what about that, with the constant follow-up, which you don't have by Zoom on any team...

Now...we did learn flexibility. So particularly for — it's usually women — caregivers, we understand there will be flexibility. But I'm going to be tracking very closely, managers. Our managers simply didn't manage.

I'm going to go back to another bunch of stuff that's been on my mind recently, OK?

They didn't manage, they were making exceptions, and people making exceptions for exceptions, and meanwhile, head count has gone up by 50,000 people in four, five years. And people tell me, 'Well, you know...'

We don't need all those people. We were putting people in jobs because the people weren't doing the job they were hired to do in the first place. It simply doesn't work. I will not be responsible for a company like that, OK, and I'm sorry. Now — you have a choice. You don't have to work at JPMorgan. So the people of you who don't want to work at the company, that's fine with me.

I'm not mad at you, don't be mad at me. It's a free country, you can walk with your feet. But this company is going to set our own standards and do it our own way. I've had it with this kind of stuff. I've been working seven days a goddamn week since Covid, and I come in, and — where is everybody else? They're here, they're there, the Zooms, and the Zooms don't show up...That's not how you run a great company.

We didn't build this great company by doing that, by doing the same...s — that everyone else does. So you wait and see what happens over time to companies that are in this business. I mean, I think you can be in other industries and do it.

The other thing — and this has nothing to do with work from home, so I apologize. There will be some exceptions made, but I will see them personally. OK? I'm not going to put up with any of this stuff...there's no special deals in this company.

Most of these big financial companies, everyone had winks and nods and friends of friends, and special this — there's none of that. And that's what this became, OK? I think that pollutes a company over time.

The other thing which I've noticed more and more is the creeping — and you guys know I hate bureaucracy, remember bureaucracy busters? — it just doesn't stop. It's us. I blame myself, too. How many of you take training classes that you think are a waste of time? Compliance classes that you think are a waste of time?...Or through legal, risk, compliance-type stuff that's — multiple committees to get multiple approvals. How many of you think there's a lot of bureaucracy that you think we gotta do something about? Just raise your hand in general. That's part of the problem.

That's unacceptable to me. What I worry about — I want the company to be as successful in 10 years as it is today...What happened to GE, Sears, Kmart? What happened to Nokia, BlackBerry? And then you had Apple and Amazon. It's even worse in financial services — what happened to Bear Stearns? Lehman Brothers? Travelers? Citibank? A hundred percent of mortgage brokerages — all bankrupt.

Everyone fired, jobs lost, reputations lost, and it was complacency and bureaucracy. In every single case. The people weren't stupid, but the places got slower, and more accepting of not doing their homework, and stuff like that. And I won't put up with it. How many of you were here when I got to Bank One? You heard the same, stupid stuff when I first got here. We're going to build a great company, and we're going to be disciplined and detailed and factual and honest and hardworking, and that's how we're going to do it. And honest with each other.

So, anyway, the bureaucracy stuff — if you have brilliant ideas, send them to me.

Another employee asked Dimon about the hiring picture at the firm, and the employee suggested there was a hiring freeze in place.

On Wednesday, a JPMorgan spokesperson sought to clarify Dimon's remarks in a statement to Barron's: "Regarding the comments on the hiring freeze, he was referring to working to keep head count flat, not a freeze. We continue to invest in hiring new professionals where appropriate and currently have 14,000 open positions."

Below is Dimon's response to the employee's question — whether the firm would hire more in or outside the U.S. once the firm picks up hiring.

Dimon: I do not know. It will be what is right and appropriate at the time. There are a lot of issues involved in who you hire and where you hire, and where you're growing, and where you're not growing.

Can I just go to this hiring freeze — do you all know about it? I should have sent a note out...Just to explain. It's not out of anger, it's not because we've done anything wrong. It's not because we're going back to the office, though it's a little bit because of that. I suspect that going back to the office will improve efficiency a lot...But it is because we've hired 50,000 people — net — in the last four years. 50,000...I also know that we've built up too much inefficiencies and bureaucracy.

It's just my general fear that — let's just hold off for a while. Let's learn to live with what we got. Now, I grew up in a business where, if you said to me in any one of your areas, if I was running it — now, the other thing we've asked people to do, and I don't know if they've asked you yet, that every area should be looking to be 10% more efficient. Both for yourself and what you impose on other people.

I don't want to pick on HR, or legal, or risk, or — the amount of stuff that we ask our people to do. And it's coming from every department: risk asked this, and compliance asked this, HR does this, and this one does that, and this one does that — it's too much. I've asked every department to cut it by 10% percent: reports, meetings, documents, training sessions.

Because — life will be OK. I'm going to give you an example: performance reviews. [inaudible] I'm really quite sure about what I'm saying. I get performance reviews for my operating committee and, you know, they got longer and longer and longer, and maybe six pages long. And because of legal and risk, and legal had to look at it, and risk had to look at it, and it's an official document, the regulators might see it, there might be litigation around it, and so we got to be careful.

I get the thing and I throw it in the goddamn garbage can. It is 100% pablum and bulls — . I literally can't stand it. I've said it year after year and I still get pablum and bullsh — ...People are taking hours to write, you know, revenues are up 12% this year, and we met the target here.

I already knew all that.

I just wanted an honest assessment — what do you do well, what do you do well, what are you going to change, focus on the negative, stuff like that. So I want the 10%. That's regular way. If I was running a department with 100 people, I can guarantee you, if I wanted to, I could run it with 90, and be more efficient. I guarantee you. I could do it in my sleep. And the notion — these bureaucracies — I need more people, I can't get it done. No, because...you're filling out requests that don't need to be done...We're nice, we collaborate really well, we're really nice to each other — we over-collaborate...

Someone told me that to approve something in wealth management, they had to go to 14 committees. I am dying to get the name of the 14 committees, and I feel like firing 14 chairmen of committees.

I can't stand it anymore. I want it out of the company, and you guys got to do it, and you've all — it just kind of creeped in. I'm sorry. And I know, it's my fault, I'm the boss. And the fact that we make a lot of money has got nothing to do with it...

...We did not stop investing: bankers, branches, the rural strategy, internet, we opened a branch in Kenya, so there's very discrete things that we continue to do. And there are some discrete technology projects, which are separate, they're more like skunk works, that we're going to do, and that includes Chase U.K. and a bunch of others.

So we're not doing it out and out. I just think it's time to take a little deep breath to be a little serious, look at what we've done, before we go into a downturn. The worst thing that you or I will ever have to do is lay off people, and if we have to, we're going to.

That's why I'm trying to be really disciplined around this kind of stuff. I've asked everyone to do it, and I want to have fun doing it. Like, literally go sit in a room, do a big chart, make some stuff, send it in. We just had our senior leader off-site. That's 350 of the more senior leaders in the company, and I took him through how we do our numbers properly, how we invest properly.

I gave them specific examples of bureaucracy. ... Bureaucracy is also centralizing too much. Everything's got to be documented too much, and so it's just creeped in a million different ways, and that's to keep us a great company. We're going to grow, we're going to expand, we're going to invest, we're going to take care of our people. We're just going to put a little bit of discipline in place to do our push-ups, sit-ups, and eat our spinach. That's it. Folks, thank you very much for spending time with me. We'll talk to you soon.

Write to Rebecca Ungarino at rebecca.ungarino@barrons.com

This content was created by Barron's, which is operated by Dow Jones & Co. Barron's is published independently from Dow Jones Newswires and The Wall Street Journal.

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250213012951:0/)
