---
title: "News Highlights: Top Global Markets News of the Day - Wednesday at 9 PM ET"
date: "2025-02-13 10:00:00"
summary: "Dow, S&amp;P 500 Fall After Inflation Hits 3%The S&amp;P 500 and Dow industrials fell after CPI rose 3% in January from a year earlier. The Nasdaq Composite edged higher.Inflation Heated Up in January, Freezing the FedConsumer prices rose 3%, extending a recent pattern of increases at the start of the..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

**Dow, S&P 500 Fall After Inflation Hits 3%**

The S&P 500 and Dow industrials fell after CPI rose 3% in January from a year earlier. The Nasdaq Composite edged higher.

**Inflation Heated Up in January, Freezing the Fed**

Consumer prices rose 3%, extending a recent pattern of increases at the start of the year that likely derails the prospect for Federal Reserve rate cuts anytime soon.

**BOE's Greene Says Key Rate Must Remain Restrictive to Tame Inflation**

Supply constraints rather than soft demand caused recent weakness in the U.K. economy, suggesting to BOE member Megan Greene that borrowing costs will have to stay restrictive to tame inflation.

**Trump Says He and Putin Agreed to Begin Talks on Ending Ukraine War**

The American president said the two leaders spoke by phone Wednesday.

**Canadian Firms Defer Spending as Tariff Threat Looms, Weighing on Broader Economy**

A Bank of Canada survey in December indicated firms like Wellmaster are downgrading their sales outlooks, and scrapping investment and hiring plans amid Trump's policies.

**Bank of Canada Cut Rates to Shield Economy From Possible Trade Fallout, Minutes Say**

A need to fuel faster growth and shield the economy from U.S. trade-policy uncertainty led senior Bank of Canada officials to agree on a quarter-point rate cut last month, according to minutes summarizing central bank deliberations.

**Trump Calls India a Tariff King, a Title Modi Wants to Shed**

With tariffs on imports averaging 14%, India is especially vulnerable to the reciprocal levies Trump says he will impose on some countries.

**U.S. Crude Oil Stockpiles Rise For Third Straight Week**

U.S. crude oil inventories increased for a third consecutive week while gasoline stocks declined for the first time in three months, according to data released by the U.S. Energy Information Administration.

**OPEC Sticks to Oil-Demand View, Flags U.S. Trade Policy Risks**

The cartel stuck to its oil-demand forecast after reaffirming plans to gradually hike output from April, but said Trump's trade policy was injecting a dose of uncertainty into markets.

**House GOP Plan Envisions $4.5 Trillion in Tax Cuts**

The Senate is moving ahead with its own narrower plan focusing on border security.

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250212017001:0/)
