---
title: "Mercury Shares Rise After 4Q Earnings Soothe Wildfire Loss Concerns"
date: "2025-02-13 00:19:00"
summary: "By Katherine HamiltonMercury General shares climbed after its fourth-quarter earnings showed strong underlying profitability that could help offset what is expected to be a significant loss from the wildfires in Southern California.The stock rose 18% to $59.11 Tuesday, regaining much of the loss it experienced since the wildfires in California..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Katherine Hamilton

Mercury General shares climbed after its fourth-quarter earnings showed strong underlying profitability that could help offset what is expected to be a significant loss from the wildfires in Southern California.

The stock rose 18% to $59.11 Tuesday, regaining much of the loss it experienced since the wildfires in California sent the stock on a nose-dive in early January. The stock is down overall about 18% in the past three months.

Mercury estimates its gross catastrophe losses from the fires will be $1.6 billion to $2 billion. Its reinsurance program provides $1.29 billion of limits on a per occurrence basis after covered catastrophe losses exceed its retention of $150 million.

Despite high exposure to fire-related loss, Mercury's underlying profitability and conservative risk profile could help buoy it, Raymond James analyst C. Gregory Peters said in a note. Operating earnings per share were $2.78 compared with $1.12 expected by analysts, according to FactSet. Net income for the full year of 2024 was up almost four-fold.

Mercury has so far paid $800 million related to the wildfires and is still assessing overall costs from the disaster. It has more than $1 billion in investments on hand, which it said is sufficient to handle the increased demand for cash. It doesn't expect any defaults on its revolving credit debt covenants from the fires.

Los Angeles-based Mercury had one of the highest levels of exposure among insurers to the California fires with roughly 46% of its direct written premiums within range of the disaster, according to Keefe, Bruyette & Woods. The company, which specializes in car insurance, had about 80% of its auto premiums written in California, Raymond James analysts said. Fitch and Moody's placed Mercury's ratings under a negative outlook after the fires.

The insurer is also pursuing a subrogation counterclaim against Southern California Edison that would allege the utility company was responsible for the fires. If the utility firm is found to be at fault, Mercury and other insurers could recover half of the related gross fire loss, Peters said.

Write to Katherine at katherine.hamilton@wsj.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250212009886:0/)
