---
title: "Global Energy Roundup: Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-14 02:49:00"
summary: "The latest Market Talks covering Energy markets. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.1349 ET - 2024 was a banner year for U.S. ethanol exports, with 1.91 billion gallons shipped out of the U.S., according to data from the Renewable Fuels Association. This is expected to continue in..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The latest Market Talks covering Energy markets. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.

1349 ET - 2024 was a banner year for U.S. ethanol exports, with 1.91 billion gallons shipped out of the U.S., according to data from the Renewable Fuels Association. This is expected to continue in 2025, says agricultural lender CoBank in a note, but there are risk factors that could derail the trend. The firm says buyers like Canada, Colombia, and the European Union will decide if ethanol is in for another big export year, although Trump tariff announcements could complicate things. "Shifting political sentiment abroad could result in lower ethanol inclusion rates and imports from domestic producers," says the firm, adding that changing regulations in these countries may also change their demand for ethanol. (kirk.maltais@wsj.com)

1228 ET - Eversource Energy's 4Q results and earnings call were encouraging, Siebert Williams Shank analysts say in a research note. The energy company could have higher 2026-2027 EPS growth, as well as over the next five years, given improved cash flows and interest expense savings, the analysts say. Still, earnings call participants appeared disappointed by the temporary lull in 2025 EPS growth and remained more focus on that more modest near-term growth. Siebert Williams Shank cuts its target price to $85 a share from $87 a share previously. Shares rise 5.4% to $62.95. (sabela.ojea@wsj.com; @sabelaojeaguix)

1122 ET - U.S. natural gas in underground storage fell by 100 billion cubic feet last week to 2,297 Bcf in a fifth consecutive triple-digit withdrawal, leaving inventories 67 Bcf or 2.8% below the five-year average, the EIA reports. Analysts in a Wall Street Journal survey had predicted a storage decline of 96 Bcf. The drawdown was smaller than the 144 Bcf five-year average for the week given a brief respite in the cold weather. "After some mild revisions in late January, the outlook for February has turned colder again over the past week," analysts at Morgan Stanley say in a note.Still, the bank lifted its end-of-March estimate for storage from 1,550 Bcf to 1,670 Bcf, citing slightly higher production. Nymex natural gas is up 5.5% at $3.761/mmBtu. (anthony.harrup@wsj.com)

1107 ET - The euro's current strength might not last as optimism for a deal to end the Ukraine war looks overdone, Monex Europe analysts say in a note. The prospect of Russian gas supplies resuming seems unlikely as that would leave the rest of Europe hostage to further Russian aggression, they say. The potential gain from Russia as an export market is also probably overstated. Furthermore, a deal could prove detrimental to Europe's security in the longer term. "We continue to see downside risks to the euro in the short to medium term, despite the initial bias to take the single currency higher." The euro rises 0.5% to an 8-day high of $1.0442, FactSet data show. (renae.dyer@wsj.com)

1054 ET - Fortis's premium valuation is justified by the utility's strong position and incremental capex opportunities, but there looks to be little room for multiple expansionfrom here, Jefferies reckons. It initiates coverage with a hold call and C$67 target price. Jefferies' analysts forecast about 5% compound annual EPS growth for Fortis through 2029, assuming flat foreign exchange rates. Still, they also see limited balance sheet flexibility, which could be exacerbated by forex swings and/or tax reform. Fortis now up 0.7% at C$63.12. (robb.stewart@wsj.com; @RobbMStewart)

1017 ET - Keyera logged a strong 4Q, with the performance of its liquids infrastructure segment likely to have been the biggest positive surprise for investors, Raymond James' Michael Barth says. Adjusted Ebitda came in at C$313 million, 11% ahead of the analyst's forecast and 8% above the consensus projection. Barth expects the market to react positively, despite distributable cash flow being in line with expectations and no significant incremental news on growth. Raymond James has an outperform call on the shares, which are now up 2.7% at C$42.96.(robb.stewart@wsj.com)

0858 ET - U.S. natural gas futures add to gains on strong heating demand and LNG feedgas flows, with production down from last week. The Nymex front month is up 4.4% at $3.722/mmBtu, its highest level since the week of January 24 when a blast of Arctic weather led to the fourth-largest storage withdrawal on record. Today's EIA report is expected to show a below-average draw on inventories reflecting last week's respite in the weather, but a return to larger withdrawals is seen for following weeks. (anthony.harrup@wsj.com)

0824 ET - Oil futures add to the previous session's losses on the possibility of Russia-Ukraine peace talks promoted by President Trump and expectations Trump will outline plans today for reciprocal trade tariffs on countries that impose duties on U.S. goods. Spartan Capital's Peter Cardillo sees "demand factors stemming from these tariffs" contributing to weaker crude, "however, we believe the very low end of the $70 level will likely hold." WTI is off 1.1% at $70.59 a barrel. Brent crude is 1.1% lower at $74.33 a barrel. (anthony.harrup@wsj.com)

0750 ET - A quick peace in Ukraine would bring about some positive albeit limited consequences for Europe's economy, Capital Economics' Andrew Kenningham says. The new administration in Washington is keen for a resolution to the three-year-old conflict, with President Trump speaking this week to his counterpart in Russia, Vladimir Putin. An end to the fighting would ease natural-gas prices in Europe as the Russian market reopens at least a little, Kenningham says. Sentiment among European businesses and consumers would also get a boost from a truce, he adds. European governments would likely need to spend more on defense in light of the continued threat from Russia, offering some scope for easing in Europe's budgets, Kenningham tells clients in a note. "This could help to support aggregate demand and give a lift to Europe's struggling industrial sector," he says. (joshua.kirby@wsj.com; @joshualeokirby)

0738 ET - Legrand's earnings beat and full-year 2025 guidance are reassuring, especially given the company's typically cautious stance and recent concerns over its growth profile versus peers, Bryan Garnier analyst Antoine Lebourgeois says in a note.The results reinforce the thesis that the French company's data-center business remains undervalued, Lebourgeois says. Nevertheless, given the lack of improving sentiment in core construction markets, Legrand's exposure to building markets will continue to constrain its growth profile relative to key electrical peers, the analyst adds. (maitane.sardon@wsj.com)

0642 ET - European natural-gas prices plunge after the U.S. and Russia agreed to start talks to end the war in Ukraine, raising prospects that the Kremlin's flows to the continent will resume. A peace deal "may lead to higher Russian pipeline natural gas flows through Ukraine to Europe--which would effectively restore the continent's cost competitiveness back to pre-2021 energy crisis levels," MUFG analysts say. The benchmark Dutch TTF contract is down 6.3% to 52.15 euros a megawatt-hour, after breaking above 58 euros earlier this week. Meanwhile, EU countries are set to discuss the possibility to relax the bloc's gas-storage targets, according to a Reuters report. As of Tuesday, EU storage was only 47.2% full as a result of colder temperatures and lower wind-power generation, raising concerns over refilling requirements for next winter. (giulia.petroni@wsj.com)

0524 ET - Russia's revenue from the export of crude and other oil products rose last month despite Western sanctions, according to the International Energy Agency. Commercial export revenues climbed by $900 million on-month to $15.8 billion in January, the agency says in its latest report. New U.S. sanctions "complicate shipping and maritime compliance requirements while endeavoring to undermine longer-term Russian oil production," the IEA says. "Yet, new deceptive shipping practices to sustain these lucrative exports and collateral disruptions for global shipping could undermine these efforts." The agency lowered its 2025 projections for Russian oil production only by a modest 150,000 b/d to an average of 9.25 million b/d. In January, Russian crude supply rose by 100,000 b/d to 9.2 million b/d, with all barrels sold above the Western-imposed price cap of $60 per barrel. (giulia.petroni@wsj.com)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250213013224:0/)
