---
title: "Europe Can Eye Some Small Boons From End to Russia-Ukraine War — Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-13 20:50:00"
summary: "1250 GMT - A quick peace in Ukraine would bring about some positive albeit limited consequences for Europe's economy, Capital Economics' Andrew Kenningham says. The new administration in Washington is keen for a resolution to the three-year-old conflict, with President Trump speaking this week to his counterpart in Russia, Vladimir..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

1250 GMT - A quick peace in Ukraine would bring about some positive albeit limited consequences for Europe's economy, Capital Economics' Andrew Kenningham says. The new administration in Washington is keen for a resolution to the three-year-old conflict, with President Trump speaking this week to his counterpart in Russia, Vladimir Putin. An end to the fighting would ease natural-gas prices in Europe as the Russian market reopens at least a little, Kenningham says. Sentiment among European businesses and consumers would also get a boost from a truce, he adds. European governments would likely need to spend more on defense in light of the continued threat from Russia, offering some scope for easing in Europe's budgets, Kenningham tells clients in a note. "This could help to support aggregate demand and give a lift to Europe's struggling industrial sector," he says. (joshua.kirby@wsj.com; @joshualeokirby)

1235 GMT - The euro pares gains against the dollar as optimism over a Ukraine ceasefire deal fades, Rabobank forex strategist Jane Foley says in a note. "What is glaringly obvious to European investors is the apparent absence of either Ukrainian or EU politicians in the arrangements that President Trump appears to be making towards bringing the conflict to an end," she says. There is also fears over Trump conceding too much to Russia and over coherence among NATO countries. The path to peace could prove a "messy process for Europe with outcomes that are not all euro positive." The euro rises 0.1% to $1.0398 after earlier hitting a one-week high of $1.0441, according to FactSet. (renae.dyer@wsj.com)

1234 GMT - The cost of insuring Israeli sovereign debt against default using credit default swaps falls close to the lowest levels since the start of the war with Hamas, as the ceasefire deal raises appetite for Israeli government debt, KNG Securities says in a note. The price of Israeli government bonds has rallied and yields have dropped following the ceasefire agreement in mid-January. "Expectations of a default have waned considerably since the height of the crisis," KNG says. Israeli five-year credit default swaps fall 1 basis point to last trade at 87bps, having traded as high as 170 basis points in October 2024, S&P Global Market Intelligence data show. (miriam.mukuru@wsj.com)

1224 GMT - Gold futures rise close to all-time highs on safe-haven and central bank demand. Futures rise 0.7% to $2,948.40 a troy ounce, close to the record $2,968.50 a troy ounce set during Tuesday's session. The precious metal has had a strong rally in the year-to-date, surpassing the above-consensus expectations of MUFG, analysts say in a note. The yellow metal is now closing in on $3,000 an ounce, which the Japanese bank had estimated would take until the third quarter of 2025. Gold's brisk start has much further to run, MUFG analysts say. Demand reflects both market fears around elevated geopolitical and economic uncertainties, driving safe-haven demand, and emerging market central bank demand, catalyzed by sanctions worries and risks of trade tariffs, MUFG says. (joseph.hoppe@wsj.com)

1218 GMT - The cost of insuring euro junk bonds against default using credit default swaps falls to its lowest in four months as prospects of a possible end to the Russia-Ukraine conflict raise market optimism. "Global markets largely shrugged off [Wednesday's] higher-than-expected U.S. inflation data, which tempered hopes for a rate cut, instead focusing on Trump's peace talks with Russia regarding Ukraine," Tickmill Group's Patrick Munnelly says in a note. The iTraxx Europe Crossover index which tracks euro junk bond CDS falls to 284 basis points, a low last seen in September, S&P Global Market Intelligence data show. The iTraxx Europe Main index which tracks euro investment-grade CDS falls 1bp to 52bps. (miriam.mukuru@wsj.com)

1207 GMT - The NATO alliance must increase defense spending, not only because the U.S. is demanding it, but because "the threat coming from Russia and other adversaries is increasing," NATO's Secretary General Mark Rutte tells reports in Brussels. There is a "clear convergence" emerging among NATO members on the need to end the Ukraine-Russia war as soon as possible, and strengthen Ukraine ahead of potential ceasefire talks, he says. It is crucial that Ukraine is involved in any such talks, Rutte adds. Most European defense stocks are rising in midday trade, after some decreases in the early morning following a call between U.S. President Donald Trump and Russian President Vladimir Putin. BAE Systems' shares advance 2.9%, Rheinmetall shares are up 1.95%, shares in Leonardo rise 1.5% and Hensoldt shares are up 0.8%. (cristina.gallardo@wsj.com)

1159 GMT - The dollar faces a further correction lower as hopes for a ceasefire in the Ukraine-Russia conflict reduce flows into safe-haven assets, Convera strategist Boris Kovacevic says in a note. Reports that President Trump is seeking a Ukraine peace deal have overshadowed Wednesday's higher-than-expected U.S. inflation data, he says. The data prompted markets to scale back rate-cut expectations for the Federal Reserve but the dollar is weaker on the Ukraine news. "Our outlook remains that positive geopolitical news currently outweighs Fed rate cut worries, leaving the dollar vulnerable even amid strong U.S. data." The DXY dollar index falls 0.3% to 107.612 after earlier hitting a one-week low of 107.502.(renae.dyer@wsj.com)

1153 GMT - While the fall in Swiss inflation to 0.4% in January from 0.6% was expected, underlying inflationary pressures are likely still a bit stronger than country's central bank expected, Capital Economics' Adrian Prettejohn says. Of greater interest to the Swiss National Bank than the headline fall will be the rebound in private services inflation excluding rents, to 1.5% in January from 1.1% in December, primarily due to a rise in transport services inflation, he says in a note. However, although that might slightly reduce the likelihood that the SNB will cut interest rates by 25 basis points in March, this still seems the most likely outcome. Swiss inflation is still likely to stay low this year, Prettejohn says. (edward.frankl@wsj.com)

1142 GMT - European natural-gas prices plunge after the U.S. and Russia agreed to start talks to end the war in Ukraine, raising prospects that the Kremlin's flows to the continent will resume. A peace deal "may lead to higher Russian pipeline natural gas flows through Ukraine to Europe--which would effectively restore the continent's cost competitiveness back to pre-2021 energy crisis levels," MUFG analysts say. The benchmark Dutch TTF contract is down 6.3% to 52.15 euros a megawatt-hour, after breaking above 58 euros earlier this week. Meanwhile, EU countries are set to discuss the possibility to relax the bloc's gas-storage targets, according to a Reuters report. As of Tuesday, EU storage was only 47.2% full as a result of colder temperatures and lower wind-power generation, raising concerns over refilling requirements for next winter. (giulia.petroni@wsj.com)

1119 GMT - Unilever guidance is especially weak, as subdued consumers and rising commodity prices are taking a toll, Chris Beckett, head of equity research at Quilter Cheviot, writes. Consumers simply aren't spending as they were in the aftermath of the pandemic, and an uncertain economic environment has caused consumers to pull back, with discretionary items the first to go, he says. Beckett says it was hoped that Unilever was embarking on a sustained turnaround, and although it might still be happening, it will take longer than hoped. "Unilever may be right in that the second half of 2025 will be better, but a lot can change between now and then, especially given the political and economic upheaval we are witnessing." Shares fall 7.4% to 44.01 pounds. (dominic.chopping@wsj.com)

1054 GMT - The chronic problems besetting eurozone industry aren't likely to be cured anytime soon, Capital Economics' Elias Hilmer says.Production dropped by 1.1% in December, more than economists had estimated, according to figures released Thursday. And there is "little scope for output to turn a corner in the coming months," Hilmer warns, noting weakness in surveys of the sector."Production will remain subdued in the coming months an the structural problems facing the ailing sector are unlikely to fade soon," he says. (joshua.kirby@wsj.com; @joshualeokirby)

1042 GMT - Investors revise down expectations for future interest-rate cuts by the Bank of England after data showed the U.K. economy unexpectedly rose by 0.4% in December, resulting in 0.1% growth over the quarter. Wednesday's stronger-than-expected U.S. inflation data also increased concerns about growing global inflationary pressures keeping interest rates higher. Money markets now only fully price in a BOE rate cut in June, having previously priced this for May, LSEG data show. The chances of a rate cut in March has dropped to 21% from 27% last week. The U.K. economy remains fragile, however. Next week's U.K. labor market and inflation data could reignite rate-cut expectations, XTB's Kathleen Brooks says in a note. (miriam.mukuru@wsj.com)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250213008451:0/)
