---
title: "Health Care Roundup: Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-11 17:20:00"
summary: "The latest Market Talks covering the Health Care sector. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires at 4:20 ET, 12:20 ET and 16:50 ET.0514 GMT - Top Glove's earnings are on the cusp of a progressive recovery this year, UOB Kay Hian analyst Jack Goh says in a note. The glove..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The latest Market Talks covering the Health Care sector. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires at 4:20 ET, 12:20 ET and 16:50 ET.

0514 GMT - Top Glove's earnings are on the cusp of a progressive recovery this year, UOB Kay Hian analyst Jack Goh says in a note. The glove maker is likely to benefit from U.S. tariff hikes, including the additional 10% levy on Chinese goods, he writes. That could entice U.S. distributors to stop importing medical gloves from Chinese producers and instead buy from Malaysian manufacturers such as Top Glove, he says. The current risk-reward tradeoff appears fair but still provides palatable upside based on 2026 valuations, he adds. UOB KH maintains the stock's hold rating and target price of MYR1.31. Shares last closed at MYR1.22. (amanda.lee@wsj.com)

1447 GMT - Biotechnology is likely to stay resilient despite tariffs, Benchmark analyst Bruce Jackson expects. While development costs may rise, there could be more mergers and acquisitions in the industry if there is less scrutiny from the Federal Trade Commission under the Trump administration. Pharma companies looking to bolster pipelines could also drive merger activity. The metabolic, central nervous system and oncology biotech industries are expected to grow while vaccines and rare diseases are more likely to face challenges. (katherine.hamilton@wsj.com)

1443 GMT - Tariffs could lead to shortages and higher prices for pharmaceuticals and medical devices, Benchmark analyst Bruce Jackson says. Trump has said his tariffs are intended to bring jobs back to the U.S., but pharmaceutical companies may be hesitant to build manufacturing capacity domestically, especially in areas where profit margins are thin, like generic drugs and hospital supplies, Jackson says. It could also take up to two years to start making medical equipment in the U.S., and up to five years to launch drug manufacturing facilities, Jackson adds. (katherine.hamilton@wsj.com)

1307 GMT - Investors have been shying away from Jamieson Wellness as they look for the safer haven of larger cap companies, but TD Cowen's Derek Lessard thinks the pullback is unwarranted. So far in the year, the stock has pulled back 15% to C$31.11, nearly wiping out the gains of the past 52 weeks. But there are plenty of positives to drive the stock, including strong contributions from the Chinese market. "With no negative operational news, our positive outlook on 4Q and longer-term is unchanged," he says in a report. The fundamentals are the same, and with the stock down, it "makes the pullback an attractive buying opportunity." (adriano.marchese@wsj.com)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250211001958:0/)
