---
title: "Coca-Cola CEO: Aluminum Tariffs Manageable Thanks to Plastic — Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-13 01:52:00"
summary: "1252 ET - Coca-Cola imports aluminium from Canada for its U.S. soda cans, though higher prices for the metal could scramble this operation, CEO James Quincey says on a call with analysts. The soda company wants to limit price hikes for consumers in order to preserve demand, which could lead..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

1252 ET - Coca-Cola imports aluminium from Canada for its U.S. soda cans, though higher prices for the metal could scramble this operation, CEO James Quincey says on a call with analysts. The soda company wants to limit price hikes for consumers in order to preserve demand, which could lead to the company considering new bottling materials: "So for example, if aluminum cans become more expensive, we can put more emphasis on PET bottles," he says. This adaptability should ensure tariffs don't drag volumes lower in 2025. "I think we control enough variables that we can adapt and mitigate our way through what is happening, because it's a combination of hedging, which we use on the key materials," Quincey says. (connor.hart@wsj.com)

1251 ET - Home listings are selling for less than asking price and taking longer to sell, according to Redfin. In January, the typical U.S. home was selling for 1.8% below asking, the largest discount in nearly two years, and taking 56 days to go under contract, the longest in almost five years. About 56% of listings remain on the market for at least 60 days, similar to last year but down from 61% last month, the highest in five years. High home prices--up 4% year over year--and elevated mortgage rates have pushed buyer payments near record highs, slowing the market. Political and economic uncertainty are also deterring buyers. But this slow market gives buyers more room to negotiate on price and terms, offering some relief amid high costs and low inventory. (chris.wack@wsj.com)

1158 ET - Canada Prime Minister Justin Trudeau says he had a short encounter with Vice President JD Vance about the negative fallout from a 25% tariff on steel and aluminum from Ohio. Trudeau tells reporters he told Vance — for an AI conference in Paris that the two lawmakers attended — that about C$2.2 billion of Canadian-made steel and aluminum are used by manufacturers in Vance's home state. "He nodded and noted it," Trudeau says, noting it was a short exchange. Earlier in the day, Quebec Premier Francois Legault mused that perhaps Canada should slap an export tax on U.S.-bound aluminum should the Trump administration imposes a hefty tariff on the metal. Canadian officials play down talk of export taxes, saying they want to press U.S. officials for a carve out. (paul.vieira@wsj.com, @paulvieira)

1150 ET - Apple could be getting a much-needed sales boost in China. The tech company partnered with Alibaba to co-develop Chinese AI features that have been submitted to China's cyberspace regulator for approval, Bank of America analyst Wamsi Mohan says in a research note, citing a report from The Information. iPhone sales have been pressured in China, falling for six consecutive quarters. CEO Tim Cook noted last month that iPhone sales are stronger in regions where AI tools are available. "We believe Apple can regain share in the Chinese market if they are able to launch Apple Intelligence successfully to compete with Huawei/Xiaomi's currently available AI offerings," Mohan writes. Alibaba ADRs rise 4.7%, on track for a two-year high. Apple shares rise 1%. (connor.hart@wsj.com)

1138 ET - The pressure that a pricing war is having on Lyft's gross bookings is a symptom of the company's smaller marketplace compared to Uber Technologies, DA Davidson analysts say in a research note. While Lyft deserves credit for some product innovations such as the price lock, it is unclear whether any rideshare product innovations can yield long-term sustainable competitive advantages against a larger scaled competitor, the analysts add. Lyft shares drop 5%, while Uber shares rise 1.6%. (sabela.ojea@wsj.com; @sabelaojeaguix)

1129 ET - Restaurant Brands International's comparable sales are slowing, but they are still ahead of the quick service restaurant industry thanks to its performance in France. TD Cowen's Andrew Charles says in a report that the company's international segment saw comparable sales growth of 4.7% which "continues the 4Q industry trend of outperformance, exceeding our 3% estimate & 2.8% consensus." Charles says RBI's international business is dominated by BK France, but not all is rosy. RBI cited bad debt expense incurred from the BK China business which continues to be a drag. (adriano.marchese@wsj.com)

1123 ET - Markets are mostly pricing one interest rate cut, or none at all, this year in the U.S. after January CPI moved further away from the Fed's 2% target, at 3%. Capital Economics' Paul Ashworth thinks a cut this year looks increasingly unlikely. "With tariffs likely to keep core PCE inflation close to, or above, 3% this year now, the Fed will stand pat for at least the next 12 months," he writes. Treasury yields jumped on the inflation data and are holding on to their gains, with the 10-year at 4.651%, on path for its highest close since mid-January. (paulo.trevisani@wsj.com; @ptrevisani)

1059 ET - Super Micro Computer is guiding for a big 60% jump in FY26 revenue that has JPMorgan analysts raising their own estimates, albeit not as high as the company's management. They say in a research note that it is too early to underwrite the upbeat view given limited visibility around the easing of supply chain constraints for next-generation chips. The upcoming AI server product cycle is also more competitive now, as Super Micro's peers have stronger portfolios and are looking to have bigger roles in the industry, the analysts say. Many of those peers have also mentioned near-term margin concerns for AI server offerings, undermining Super Micro's confidence that margins could improve for next-gen AI servers, they say. (dean.seal@wsj.com)

1058 ET - Quebec Premier Francois Legault suggests that Canada might want to slap an export tax on aluminum should President Trump follow through on imposing a 25% tariff on all imported steel and aluminum. Canada is by far the biggest seller of foreign aluminum to the U.S., and the bulk of Canadian aluminum is in the province of Quebec. The U.S. "really needs us" on aluminum, says Legault, who is in Washington with other Canadian premiers to persuade lawmakers and officials about the potential fallout on tariffs on Canadian imports. An export tax on products like aluminum might get Trump's attention, he says. "We have to be careful," Legault adds, "[because] we want to have a deal with no tariffs." (paul.vieira@wsj.com; @paulvieira)

1057 ET - Boot Barn still has time to navigate the brewing trade war, says BofA Securities' Christopher Nardone and Lorraine Hutchinson in a research note. The lifestyle retail chain's sourcing footprint includes about 30% of production in China and 25% in Mexico, say the analysts. They expect the incremental 10% tariff on China will be manageable through vendor negotiations and potential pricing actions. Production in Mexico will be tough to move to other regions, they note, but expect the potential 25% tariff on the country to be addressed by price increases. "Boot Barn turns inventory roughly twice per year, so they still have some time to navigate the situation," say the analysts. "Risks of a harsher tariff playbook may linger given the volatility of the current political situation." (denny.jacob@wsj.com; @pennedbyden)

1051 ET - Kraft Heinz says it is taking different approaches to boost sales of several struggling staples, from Lunchables to Capri Sun, mac & cheese and mayonnaise. The packaged-food giant says it will seek to offer lower prices in categories where affordability is an issue, and improve its product line-up in other categories, rolling out new products and better ingredients. For some products, Kraft Heinz is considering changing prices versus simply offering promotions. "There is not a silver bullet," says Andre Maciel, Kraft Heinz's chief financial officer. At the same time, the company says it will raise prices in emerging markets and on products like coffee where its own costs are increasing. (jesse.newman@wsj.com)

1044 ET - Super Micro Computer's plan to have several regulatory filings finalized and released prior to the February 25 deadline, should reduce uncertainty for investors, Wedbush analysts Matt Bryson and Antoine Legault say in a research note. JPMorgan analysts raise their price targets on the company to $35 from $23, "largely on the back of the increased conviction from the management team to meet regulatory deadlines," they say in a research note. For that same reason, the JPMorgan analysts are ascribing a higher earnings multiple to the stock. That said, the delayed filings marked Super Micro's second flirtation with questionable financials and may continue to weigh on its perceived risk profile, the Wedbush analysts say in their note. Super Micro Computer climbs 1.5% and is up 29% year-to-date. (dean.seal@wsj.com)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250212011024:0/)
