---
title: "DHT, Evolve Technologies, and More Stocks See Action From Activist Investors — Barrons.com"
date: "2025-02-08 08:16:00"
summary: "These disclosures are from 13Ds filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. 13Ds are filed within 10 days of an entity's attaining more than 5% in any class of a company's securities. Subsequent changes in holdings or intentions must be reported in amended filings. This material is from Jan. 30..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

These disclosures are from 13Ds filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. 13Ds are filed within 10 days of an entity's attaining more than 5% in any class of a company's securities. Subsequent changes in holdings or intentions must be reported in amended filings. This material is from Jan. 30 through Feb. 5, 2025. Source: VerityData

Original Filings

DHT Holdings(DHT) Scorpio Tankers disclosed a new position in the crude-oil tanker company of 11,910,730 shares. Scorpio Tankers reported that it purchased 3,928,250 of those shares from Jan. 22 through Jan. 29, 2025, at per share prices ranging from $10.66 to $11.13.

Following the latest purchases, Scorpio Tankers owns 7.5% of DHT Holdings' outstanding stock, which requires Scorpio Tankers to report further purchases or sales. Shares of DHT Holdings have gained roughly 22.4% in value during the year.

Evolv Technologies(EVLV) Stoic Point Capital Management filed an initial 13D at the security technology firm, shifting its stance to that of an activist investor from previous regulatory disclosures as a passive 13G. In the latest filing, Stoic Point Capital Management reported that it purchased 750,897 Evolv Technologies shares from Dec. 9, 2024, through Jan. 28, 2025, at per share prices ranging from $3 to $4.22, after selling 147,150 Evolv shares from Dec. 4 to Dec. 6 at $4.30 to $4.42.

Following the purchases, Stoic Point Capital Management owns 8,208,515 Evolv Technologies shares, equal to a 5.2% stake, placing Stoic Point above the 5% threshold requiring it to report further Evolv Technologies purchases or sales. Shares of Evolv Technologies have gained about 4.8% year to date in 2025.

Decreases in Holdings

The RealReal (REAL) Philotimo Fund lowered its stake in the online luxury consignment marketplace to 4,296,153 shares. Philotimo Fund sold 2,033,864 RealReal shares from Jan. 7 through Jan. 30, 2025, at per share prices ranging from $9.50 to $10.21.

Following the sales, Philotimo Fund continues to own 3.9% of RealReal's outstanding stock, which places Philotimo below the 5% threshold requiring it to report further sales. Shares of RealReal have lost about 10.6% during the year to date.

Freshworks (FRSH) Peak XV Partners reduced its stake in the customer-engagement software provider to 11,704,553 shares. Peak XV Partners did so through the sale of 2,926,139 Freshworks shares from Dec. 9, 2024, through Jan. 28, 2025, at per share prices ranging from $17 to $19.20.

Following the latest sales, Peak XV Partners continues to own 5% of Freshworks' outstanding stock. Shares of Freshworks have gained 16.3% in value to date in 2025.

BridgeBio Pharma(BBIO) Viking Global Investors reduced its stake in the biotechnology company to 22,055,375 shares. Viking Global Investors did so through the open market sale of 3,065,616 BridgeBio Pharma shares on Jan. 31, 2025, at a price of $34.90 per share.

Following the latest sales, Viking Global Investors continues to own an 11.7% stake in BridgeBio Pharma. Shares of BridgeBio Pharma have gained about 19.2% in value since the beginning of 2025.

Email: editors@barrons.com

This content was created by Barron's, which is operated by Dow Jones & Co. Barron's is published independently from Dow Jones Newswires and The Wall Street Journal.

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250207011606:0/)
