---
title: "Global Equities Roundup: Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-13 17:43:00"
summary: "The latest Market Talks covering Equities. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.0943 GMT - Singapore's FTSE Straits Times Index closed 0.2% higher at 3882.58, after fluctuating between mild gains and losses, as investors digested the hotter-than-expected U.S. inflation data released overnight. The reading has led to markets..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The latest Market Talks covering Equities. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.

0943 GMT - Singapore's FTSE Straits Times Index closed 0.2% higher at 3882.58, after fluctuating between mild gains and losses, as investors digested the hotter-than-expected U.S. inflation data released overnight. The reading has led to markets pricing in only one Fed rate cut this year in December, the Commerzbank Research team writes in a note. Seatrium jumped 11% after announcing that it signed a preliminary agreement with British oil major BP for a second deepwater floating production unit project in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico. REITs were mixed, with CapitaLand Investment and CapitaLand Ascendas REIT up 1.6% and 0.7%, respectively, while CapitaLand Integrated Commercial Trust and Mapletree Industrial Trust each closed lower by 1.0%. (kimberley.kao@wsj.com)

0938 GMT - Contemporary Amperex Technology's secondary listing in Hong Kong should facilitate access to international capital, global investors and funding for its global expansion, Bernstein analysts write in a note. With 260 billion yuan in cash on the balance sheet, the company doesn't necessarily need the cash, and the listing proceeds will be mainly used to fund the battery maker's 100 GWh Hungary battery plant, they say. CATL is more positive on battery demand growth than Bernstein, with the company's forecast for 2030 25% higher than the asset manager's projection. Bernstein maintains its outperform rating on the stock with a target price of CNY340. Shares last closed at CNY261.39. (jiahui.huang@wsj.com; @ivy\_jiahuihuang)

0935 GMT - Legrand posted an overall strong fourth-quarter performance, RBC Capital Markets analyst Nick Housden says in a research note. The French electrical and digital building infrastructure manufacturer posted fourth-quarter organic sales growth of 6.2%, an impressive 400 basis points above consensus, Housden says. This, along with better-than-expected operating margins, supported an overall adjusted EBIT beat of 11%, he says. Shares trade 5.9% higher at 103.40 euros. (nina.kienle@wsj.com)

0930 GMT - DSM-Firmenich could launch another share buyback program in 2026, analysts at Equita write. This follows the nutrition, health and bioscience company announcing a surprise 1 billion euro buyback alongside its fourth-quarter results. The buyback launched on Thursday will be executed over the next 12 months and is valued at 3.7% of its market capitalization, they write. The buyback follows solid fourth-quarter results, which were slightly better than expected, the analysts write. Shares trade up 2.62% at 103.65 euros. (adam.whittaker@wsj.com)

0928 GMT - European defense stocks could see their valuations boosted by about 30% if the European members of NATO increase their defense spending to 3% of their gross domestic product, Citi's analyst Sam Burgess says. On Wednesday, U.S. Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth doubled down on President Trump's calls for European members of NATO to boost defense spending to 5% of their GDP. "If Russia emerges from a peace deal emboldened, we believe this is likely to make European nations--particularly those closer to Russia--feel less, rather than more, secure," Burgess writes in a research note. "In the end, the paradox of a peace may be that it catalyzes even higher European defense spending." (cristina.gallardo@wsj.com)

0925 GMT - Siemens's standout positive in its solid first-quarter results was the turnaround in the digital industries segment, Quilter Cheviot analyst Jarek Pominkiewicz says in a research note. The German conglomerate saw a return in order growth in the segment and although orders in Germany were down, the recovery in China is encouraging, the analyst says. Germany is expected to follow suit later in 2025, he adds. "The end of destocking in Chinese automation should support a cyclical recovery in digital industries' automation business," Pominkiewicz says. Shares trade 5.4% higher at 223.60 euros. (nina.kienle@wsj.com)

0924 GMT - Barclays's share drop is a buying opportunity, JP Morgan Cazenove says in a research note. The stock fell following 4Q results despite beating estimates, as expectations were already high with shares up 15% year to date, analysts Kian Abouhossein and Sheel Shah write. The company was also hit by restructuring costs that exceeded consensus, which offset revenue momentum in the investment banking division, they add. Still, the British bank is one of analysts' top picks in Europe given its sweet spot exposure to European and U.S. trends. Shares fall 5.2% to 292 pence. (elena.vardon@wsj.com)

0922 GMT - Renishaw surprised analysts with the scale of its slowdown in the second quarter of its fiscal year, Jefferies said in a research note. The British company makes manufacturing technologies ranging from semiconductor production equipment to robotics. Renishaw posted quarter-on-quarter declines in revenue and adjusted profit before tax of 3.7%and 31%, respectively. The company suggested that the first-quarter results may have been flattered by hedging contracts, while the second-quarter figures were impacted by one-off supply chain issues and a more adverse revenue mix, the analysts say. Shares in London are down 7.8% at 33 pounds. (cristina.gallardo@wsj.com)

0910 GMT - Unilever shares drop after a subdued near-term outlook although results were broadly in line with expectations, Interactive Investor analyst Keith Bowman says in a note. Consumers still face a tough backdrop and investments mean costs are pressuring margins, Bowman says. Nevertheless, the consumer group's performance represents a fourth consecutive quarter of underlying volume growth above 2%, according to Bowman. He lists the buyback, ice-cream exit, dividend and pursuit of cost savings as positives. Strong brands and the push to refocus the portfolio and enhance productivity mean analyst consensus opinion remains a "cautious buy," he says. Shares trade 6.55% lower at 44.40 pounds. (sarah.sloat@wsj.com)

0907 GMT - Delivery Hero's full-year 2025 guidance points to another year of improved profitability and cash flow generation, Jefferies analysts write. The guidance is well-aligned with consensus expectations, they say. The German food-delivery company comfortably met its full-year 2024 guidance after a strong fourth-quarter, they write. Delivery Hero reported a slowdown in growth in Asia but this was not a surprise to investors, they write. The company is expected to use its call with analysts later in the day to explain its turnaround strategy in South Korea, the analysts add. Shares trade up 6.6% at 28.01 euros. (adam.whittaker@wsj.com)

0906 GMT - Malaysia's Kuala Lumpur Composite Index closed 0.7% lower at 1592.28. Market sentiment turned cautious as investors assessed Fed Chair Jerome Powell's remarks overnight, which suggested a more measured approach to interest rate cuts, while the central bank prioritizes controlling inflation, TA Securities analyst Stephen Soo says in a note. Soo pegs the KLCI's support at 1550 and resistance at 1605. Among decliners, Mr. D.I.Y. Group was 4.2% lower and 99 Speed Mart Retail lost 2.7%. Meanwhile, Sunway Bhd. rose 2.0% and MISC Bhd. was 2.3% higher. (yingxian.wong@wsj.com)

0904 GMT - Michelin's guidance for 2025 offers some relief given that the company points to rising earnings, Deutsche Bank's Christoph Laskawi says in a note. The French tire maker reported revenue and earnings that were in line with expectations, while its cash generation beat forecasts, the analyst says. More importantly, the company guided for growing earnings in 2025, which is in line with expectations but should provide relief to those who feared worse, Laskawi says. Michelin didn't hint at an extension to its 1 billion-euro buyback program, but this could come in the second half of the year, the analyst says. Shares jump 5.2%. (adria.calatayud@wsj.com)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250213004747:0/)
