---
title: "Financial Services Roundup: Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-13 01:20:00"
summary: "The latest Market Talks covering Financial Services. Exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires at 4:20 ET, 12:20 ET and 16:50 ET.0853 ET - Commerzbank's CEO Bettina Orlopp faces a make-or-break moment to convince shareholders that the bank should stay independent when she outlines a new strategy on Thursday, Mergermarket analyst William..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The latest Market Talks covering Financial Services. Exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires at 4:20 ET, 12:20 ET and 16:50 ET.

0853 ET - Commerzbank's CEO Bettina Orlopp faces a make-or-break moment to convince shareholders that the bank should stay independent when she outlines a new strategy on Thursday, Mergermarket analyst William Cain says. Italy's UniCredit has built up a 28% stake in its German peer, and signaled its intention to pursue a takeover when the moment is right. This has triggered opposition from politicians and union leaders and led Commerzbank to reiterate its standalone prospects. "If the presentation falls flat, it will embolden UniCredit CEO Andrea Orcel to move forward with plans to make an offer, but Orcel and UniCredit are also likely to need to win support from Germany's politicians before proposing a deal--hostile, cross-border bank M&A has been rare since the financial crisis," Cain says. (elena.vardon@wsj.com)

0734 ET - Prudential PLC's 49% stake in an Indian asset management JV, which it is considering listing, could be worth around $5 billion, or a quarter of the London-listed insurer's total market capitalization, Bank of America says in a research note. "This is clearly only a high-level indication of value and any listing process could incur costs and lead to a discount (or premium) vs closest peers, but we think value discovery will be positive for Prudential," analysts write. They think that several investors aren't aware of the value of this business, which it holds jointly with ICICI Bank. The group also intends to return part of the proceeds to shareholders, which would be significantly accretive to its EPS and provide technical support for the stock. Prudential's London shares jump 7% to 732 pence, their highest level since July. (elena.vardon@wsj.com)

0722 ET - ABN Amro will engage in M&A if it fits in its strategic profile, CEO Robert Swaak said in a call with reporters after the Dutch bank reported fourth-quarter results. ABN Amro bought German private bank Hauck Aufhauser Lampe last year to bolster its wealth-management operations. "What that acquisition showed is that... if potential M&A fits our strategic profile and if it's financially accretive, we would certainly have considerations to do M&A," he said. The deal is expected to close in the second quarter. The bank's targets to increase its fees by 3% to 5% each year are organic and don't depend on M&A. "If there's opportunities that fit the criteria that we've set for ourselves, then we will do the required analysis to come up with decisions," Swaak added. (elena.vardon@wsj.com)

0720 ET - Most Canadians are worried about retirement, a Bank of Montreal survey finds. It notes that 76% of Canadians are worried about not having enough money in retirement because of rising prices, and 63% believe price increases over the past 12 months have limited their ability to save for retirement. On average, those surveyed believe they will need just over C$1.54 million to retire, down from C$1.67 million in 2023. "The spike in prices as the economy emerged from the pandemic is a stark reminder rising prices can affect spending, investment and savings plans," says BMO senior economist Robert Kavcic. The online survey of 1,500 adults was conducted in November. (robb.stewart@wsj.com)

0433 ET - Shares in ABN Amro rose almost 9% after the Dutch lender published its quarterly results which missed estimates due to taxes and a one-off provision. "The actual results are very good, even though there is a miss at the bottom line," ING analyst Jason Kalamboussis writes in a research note. The somewhat mixed guidance for 2025--net interest income is expected to decline and the bank anticipates flat costs--but this evens out in consensus, he says. Peer Rabobank on Tuesday upgraded its net interest income to flat. ABN Amro's guidance should probably be viewed as conservative given it delivered on its 2024 targets or as taking a harsher view on the Dutch economy, the analyst adds. The stock trades just under 18 euros, its highest level since September 2019. (elena.vardon@wsj.com)

0402 ET - Italian insurer Unipol could benefit from the consolidation of the country's banking sector as one of its assets, BPER Banca, launched a bid for another asset, Banca Popolare di Sondrio, Berenberg says. Unipol is the largest shareholder in both lenders, owning around a 19% stake in each. If the transaction is successful, Unipol's dividend could increase by around 5%, or an extra 0.05 euro per share, analyst Michael Huttner writes. "We calculate that Unipol...will see its dividend income from banking rise from EUR250m to EUR284m pro forma with regard to its FY 2025E dividends," he notes. Unipol shares edge up 0.4% to 13.83 euros and are up 15% year to date. (elena.vardon@wsj.com)

0357 ET - Danske Bank published very convincing fourth quarter results, allowing full-year 2024 results to outshine the already upgraded guidance, AlphaValue analyst Sylvain Perret writes. Danske also provided 2025 guidance well above AlphaValue's estimates, and reassured the market that the expected decline in net interest income this year would remain marginal, Perret says. Danske's true beat this quarter was the momentum acceleration observable in the bank's fee income, and management expects a stable fee income level versus 2024, he adds. "Our estimates are under review and are biased to the upside." Alpha Value rates Dankse Bank at reduce with a 237 kroner price target. Shares rise 0.6% to 233.30 Danish kroner. (dominic.chopping@wsj.com)

0352 ET - Close Brothers Group's provision to cover costs from a motor-finance commission case is tough to assess, Keefe, Bruyette and Woods analysts Edward Firth and Elise Yu Ge say. This is because the merchant bank's estimate is based on probability weighted scenarios using various assumptions, and it hasn't disclosed the average commission rates or gross lending since 2007, they say. The provision equates about 8% of its motor finance loan book, compared with Santander's provision of about 6% and FirstRand of about 11%, they say. The bank's first-half operating performance looks broadly in line with consensus, but the analysts caution that loan volumes look light and management highlighted a risk of additional legal and professional fees in the second half. Shares are up 0.55% at 3.67 pounds. (cristina.gallardo@wsj.com)

0341 ET - Close Brothers Group has set aside 165 million pounds to cover costs from a motor-finance commission case, but there is no certainty that this will be the right amount, Panmure Liberum analysts say. Even so, the merchant bank faces other issues including insurance premium finance and the very positioning of the bank, they note. Close Brothers' share price will remain volatile, they add. Shares are down 1.1% at 3.61 pounds. (cristina.gallardo@wsj.com)

0340 ET - BPER Banca's takeover offer for peer Banca Popolare di Sondrio is a good deal which got a negative reception and provides an interesting entry point, Deutsche Bank says in a research note. Concerns around execution risk, uncertainties about profit contributions, and low visibility on revenue synergies are all elements that will turn into value drivers in coming months, analyst Giovanni Razzoli writes. Deutsche raises its rating on BPER to buy from hold as the acquisition would benefit its return on tangible equity, likely lead to an upward revision of its 2027 net-income target, and has low execution risk despite expected initial push back. Shares is Sondrio--whose board rebuffed the offer on Tuesday evening--rises 1.5%, while BPER is up 1.15%. (elena.vardon@wsj.com)

0244 ET - Banco BPM's better-than-expected new business plan targets to 2027 and the increase of its takeover offer for asset manager Anima should be well received by the market, Keefe, Bruyette & Woods analysts Hugo Cruz and Ben Maher say in a research note. The higher bid increases the likelihood of success for the transaction, which BPM assumes will go through and takes into account Anima's integration when setting its new targets. The Italian bank also confirmed that it has 43% Anima shareholder support for the deal at this stage. (elena.vardon@wsj.com)

0237 ET - ABN Amro's net interest income guidance for 2025 could come across as conservative given no volume growth is assumed in the replicating portfolio income, RBC Capital Markets says after the Dutch lender posted quarterly results. The bank expects net interest income in the 6.2 billion euro to 6.4 billion euro range, in line with consensus expectations. "The higher end of guidance assumes constant margins (savings rates move in tandem with replicating portfolio yield), whilst the lower end of guidance assumes no chance in client savings rates (1.5% currently)," analyst Anke Reingen and associate Matthew Russell write in a research note. Guidance for costs--flat on 2024's 5.3 billion euros--suggests upside to consensus, they add. (elena.vardon@wsj.com)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250212010767:0/)
