---
title: "Global Equities Roundup: Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-10 08:15:00"
summary: "The latest Market Talks covering Equities. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.1915 ET - Japanese stocks are lower as uncertainty about higher borrowing costs continues. Also weighing on the market are concerns about trade friction between the U.S. and its trading partners. Trading-house stocks are leading the..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The latest Market Talks covering Equities. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.

1915 ET - Japanese stocks are lower as uncertainty about higher borrowing costs continues. Also weighing on the market are concerns about trade friction between the U.S. and its trading partners. Trading-house stocks are leading the declines. Mitsubishi Corp. is down 2.1% and Itochu is 2.2% lower. USD/JPY is at 151.72, compared with 151.62 as of Friday's Tokyo stock market close. Investors are closely watching developments over U.S. tariffs and domestic corporate earnings. The Nikkei Stock Average is down 0.4% at 38647.60. (kosaku.narioka@wsj.com; @kosakunarioka)

1911 ET - South Korea's benchmark Kospi falls 0.6% to 2507.51 in early trade as steel, semiconductor and auto stocks retreat. Foreign investors are net sellers. Steelmakers Posco Holdings and Hyundai Steel slide 2.9% and 2.3%, respectively, with President Trump due to announce 25% tariffs on imports of steel and aluminum. Memory-chip maker SK Hynix falls 2.0%. Carmaker Hyundai Motor retreats 1.1%. Meanwhile, Woori Financial Group rises 3.6% after its 2024 net profit beat market consensus. USD/KRW is 0.6% higher at 1,455.80, compared with the prior session's Seoul onshore trading close. South Korea's 10-year government bond yield is up 4.0 bps at 2.836%. (kwanwoo.jun@wsj.com)

1857 ET - Logistics software developer WiseTech Global should be a net beneficiary of the complexity that tariffs could add to global trade, RBC analyst Garry Sherriff says. He thinks that tariffs could spur demand for the Australian company's CargoWise platform, particularly its customs and compliance modules. Sherriff tells clients in a note that medium-term structural tailwinds remain in place but anticipates near-term negative sentiment from continued leadership uncertainty and local media coverage of personal allegations against founder Richard White. RBC has a last-published sector-perform rating and A$125.00 target price on the stock, which is down 3.5% at A$125.40. (stuart.condie@wsj.com)

1848 ET - CAR Group's bull at Citi is concerned by the quality of the Australian vehicle advertiser's first-half result. Analyst Siraj Ahmed highlights A$16 million in below-the-line costs and higher-than-expected capital expenditure in a note to clients. The latter was 17% higher than Ahmed had anticipated, and now accounts for 11% of revenue. Overall, however, Ahmed sees the result as quite resilient given tough industry conditions in the U.S. and private buying normalizing in Australia. Citi has a last-published buy rating and A$42.40 target price on the stock, which is down 6.8% at A$38.23. (stuart.condie@wsj.com)

1846 ET - While JB Hi-Fi's 1H earnings were very strong, Jefferies expects a weaker gross profit margin to dominate the conversation. JB Hi-Fi beat EBIT expectations for every division in 1H and its January sales stayed robust. Still, JB Hi-Fi's gross margin of 22.12% was 19 basis points lower than a year earlier at the group level, with margins in its JB Hi-Fi Australia business falling below pre-Covid levels for the first time. Analyst Michael Simotas also notes JB Hi-Fi's cautious outlook given uncertainty in the retail market and ongoing competition, but says management is typically conservative. JB Hi-Fi is up 0.3%. (david.winning@wsj.com; @dwinningWSJ)

1843 ET - Japanese stocks may fall as concerns about higher borrowing costs persist. Nikkei futures are down 0.8% at 38520 on the SGX. USD/JPY is at 151.54, compared with 151.62 as of Friday's Tokyo stock market close. Expectations have grown lately for further Bank of Japan rate increases and the Fed to slow its rate cuts. Investors are focusing on any developments over U.S. tariffs as well as domestic corporate earnings. The Nikkei Stock Average fell 0.7% to 38787.02 on Friday. (kosaku.narioka@wsj.com)

1838 ET - Macquarie serves up two contrarian ideas for investors as Australia's corporate-earnings season extends into its second week. It believes the market likely fears a CSL miss, given the pharmaceutical company's stock hasn't yet arrested a share-price slide that began in July and some analysts have cut forecasts. CSL's stock is down some 13% since July 23. "It should benefit from the lower AUD and pharma tends to outperform after RBA cuts," Macquarie says. Many economists expect Australia's central bank to cut interest rates this month, which would be the first time since inflation ran hot in the pandemic's aftermath. Macquarie is also bullish about property company Mirvac, saying it would also benefit from rate cuts. (david.winning@wsj.com; @dwinningWSJ)

1734 ET - CAR Group shares will likely underperform despite the Australian vehicle advertiser's reasonable 1H result, E&P analyst Entcho Raykovski reckons. He points out that December-half proforma revenue, proforma Ebitda and adjusted net profit fell short of analyst expectations by 2.5%, 1.8% and 2.7%, respectively. CAR also downgraded its annual revenue guidance for its North American Trader Interactive business to good from solid, he adds. Combined with the stock's strong run ahead of the result, this is likely to lead to a negative market reaction, Raykovski writes in a note. E&P has a neutral rating and A$34.80 target price on the stock, which is at A$41.03 ahead of the open. (stuart.condie@wsj.com)

1722 ET - JB Hi-Fi's shares are likely to remain in favor with investors after its 1H profit beats expectations and January sales look strong, Barrenjoey says. JB Hi-Fi reported a A$285.4 million net profit and A$419.9 million Ebit in 1H. Analyst Tom Kierath says Ebit exceeded consensus forecasts of A$409 million. January like-for-like sales growth of 7.1% at JB Hi-Fi Australia stores is outpacing Barrenjoey's forecast of a 6% increase in 3Q. "Given the beat and strong January we expect the shares to continue trading well," says Barrenjoey, which had a neutral call on JB Hi-Fi ahead of the 1H result. JB Hi-Fi's shares are up some 69% over the past 12 months. (david.winning@wsj.com; @dwinningWSJ)

1711 ET - Sigma Healthcare is already showing early benefits from its merger with Chemist Warehouse, and Jefferies is optimistic that the good news will continue. Sigma upgraded its FY 2025 guidance for normalized Ebit to A$64 million-A$70 million, from a prior target of A$50 million-A$60 million. Jefferies expects A$67.2 million. "We believe margin expansion within Sigma can continue," says analyst David Stanton. Jefferies lifts its price target on Sigma by 4.9% to A$2.15/share, although that's below the current stock price of A$2.92 and the key reason why the bank stays at underperform. (david.winning@wsj.com; @dwinningWSJ)

1705 ET - Jefferies doesn't expect AGL Energy's 1H result to be as strong as last year and investors should be OK with that. It forecasts 1H Ebitda of A$937 million, down from A$1.07 billion a year ago, because realized electricity prices eased over the period. Net profit also likely declined to A$270 million, says Jefferies, acknowledging that consensus hopes are some 12% higher than that. "However, the current pricing stability remains attractive, with the increased benefit from the increased flexibility of coal generators," analyst Anthony Moulder says. "With forward wholesale electricity prices remaining elevated for FY 2026, and with earnings and cash flows remaining supportive for further investment in grid connected batteries, AGL remains well-positioned." (david.winning@wsj.com; @dwinningWSJ)

1618 ET - Australia's S&P/ASX 200 is on track for an opening slide amid a burst of company earning reports. ASX futures are down by 0.8% ahead of Monday's session, suggesting the benchmark index will add to the 0.2% decline compiled across last week. Ahead of the open, protective-garment manufacturer Ansell raised its annual earnings guidance after 1H profit more than doubled. Other companies scheduled to report earnings Monday include entertainment retailer JB Hi-Fi. U.S. equities provided a weak lead on Friday. The blue-chip DJIA lost 1.0%, the broad-based S&P 500 fell 0.95%, and the tech-heavy Nasdaq Composite lost 1.4%. (stuart.condie@wsj.com)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250209001043:0/)
