---
title: "What Comes After Retirement? For One Horse, a $2.2 Million Home in Texas — WSJ"
date: "2025-02-14 10:00:00"
summary: "By Nancy Keates | Photography by Jack Thompson for WSJFor eight years, Daisy Ford's horse, Charly, competed with her in show-jumping events around the world, leading to dozens of top prizes, including two Grand Prix.When it came time for Charly, who is now 18, to retire, Daisy didn't want him..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Nancy Keates | Photography by Jack Thompson for WSJ

For eight years, Daisy Ford's horse, Charly, competed with her in show-jumping events around the world, leading to dozens of top prizes, including two Grand Prix.

When it came time for Charly, who is now 18, to retire, Daisy didn't want him to be stuck in some cramped barn around people he didn't know.

"I wanted a space for him where he would get to live his best life," says Daisy, 25. "That horse worked so hard for me."

Her parents, Tina and Matt Ford, stepped in to help. The couple, who started Houston-based design-build firm Ford Design, saw their daughter's request as a perfect excuse to buy what they intended to be a vacation property in Texas Hill Country.

They paid $400,000 in 2018 for 11.5 acres situated 10 miles from the center of Dripping Springs, a serene, small town outside of Austin surrounded by farms, with so many cows wandering everywhere it necessitated "loose livestock" signs along the roads. Over the next four years, they spent $2.2 million designing and building a new 3,000-square-foot house and detached barn.

The finished house is minimalist and simple: a long, narrow rectangle with a stained Cyprus exterior, an A-frame metal roof, steel windows and doors, a burnt-Cyprus kitchen island and marble counters. There are custom plaster-finish walls, floating glass walls recessed into the concrete floors framed by ivory velvet drapes and no baseboards. It is now Tina and Matt's primary home.

The couple wanted a space that would look elegant but clean up easily when, inevitably, someone wears manure-covered boots inside or the dogs pee on the floors. The aesthetic was partly inspired by Marfa, a small desert town in West Texas with large metal minimalist art installations.

"It's rugged — a love letter to Texas," says Matt, who wears a straw cowboy hat when he rides around the property on his Onewheel, an electric skateboard with a single tire. (It's amusing to see him occasionally get thrown off the board, says Daisy; Matt thinks she digs holes in the ground just to make sure that happens.)

The main room holds a kitchen and dining and living areas. Separating the main room from a guest suite is a screened-in porch with a Cyprus ceiling and a wall of windows that can enclose the space when it's cold. On the other side of the house, behind the kitchen, is the main bedroom and bath, with a black-streaked white marble shower. The couple designed much of the furniture, including an antique pine dining table with sheepskin-covered chairs.

Much of the attention went to the property's new 1,300-square-foot, four-stall barn. The goal was to build a structure that wasn't only aesthetically pleasing, but also more functional and user-friendly than most barns, both for the horses and for the humans taking care of them.

Instead of just straw, Charly sleeps on a therapeutic mattress made of dense beanbags covered in wood shavings that Daisy says is good for his tendons and ligaments. Rather than being locked inside a stable, dependent on people to let him out, Charly's stall has an opening he can control, allowing him to enter and exit freely into runs that lead to a fenced-in pasture. "I didn't want him to be just standing there all day, " says Daisy.

Each stall has knobs to fill the water buckets inside the stall, much like pot fillers on a kitchen stove, to save time and effort. The hardware, such as the latches on the barn and stalls, is custom designed to be easy to use — clicking in and releasing firmly but fluidly. When a storm rolls in out of nowhere it's important to be able to get the horse inside quickly and safely. "Ergonomics are key," says Matt, 58.

Each Ford member contributed a different element of the design. Matt's focus was visual: He would spend hours making sure the front of the stalls were 100% flush with the wood so that it was completely tight. He went through hundreds of colors before he picked the blue-gray hue for the barn doors.

Daisy concentrated on the practicalities that would ease Charly's life. She designed pastures with flows and curves (most pastures are just square) with pathways to the stable. Her husband, Tate Barnhill, 26, who is in semiconductor sales, built the fences for the pastures. Daisy and Tate recently moved from Houston to Dripping Springs, buying a house so they could be nearby.

Tina, 53, was the go-between for her husband and daughter. For example, Tina negotiated allowing Daisy to have a horse trailer on the property by reassuring Matt he could design a structure to hide it.

Charly isn't the only animal who gets first-class service at the Ford home. Another horse, Stitch, lives in the barn, and the couple have seven cats and six dogs — all rescued from one place or another.

There are four dog beds in the kitchen alone, and six litter boxes and various kennels scattered throughout. They have seven beehives. A wall by the kitchen is a rare cluttered space: It has ceramic tiles with the paw imprints of their deceased pets mixed in with family photos. Along the same wall are Matt's father's ashes in a blue velvet box near an old rifle once owned by Tina's grandmother.

Tina keeps a large metal bowl full of deer corn and protein pellets for the jack rabbits, wild turkeys, deer and foxes, who, she says, come when she whistles. The 4,600-square-foot garden, with vegetables, roses and lavender, is enclosed with a sealed concrete wall to protect the plants from the wild animals and to keep the dogs from running freely at night.

The Fords found Charly when he was 8 years old, lanky and inexperienced, during a trip to Germany when Daisy was 15. They shipped him home to Texas. When Daisy went to Drexel University in Philadelphia, Charly went too, boarding in a stable in New Jersey. Charly returned to Texas with her when she transferred to Southern Methodist University. In 2023, she retired Charly. "I could tell he was getting burned out," she says.

Buying the Dripping Springs property wasn't all about Charly. Tina grew up in a small Texas town called Brenham, with a population of 19,000, and wanted to try living in a rural area again. "It was always in the back of my mind," she says.

Tina and Matt, who met at the University of Houston and got married in 1994, bought and renovated a series of houses in Houston, renting and selling them. Word of their design work spread, and in 2005 they began to get hired by other people. Now, Matt is the creative director for a real-estate development company called Steelwave, and Tina helms Ford Design, focusing on residential renovation and new-build projects.

Daisy has started working with Tina at Ford Design, expanding the firm's barn-building business, and she may also sell horses on the side. The setup allows her to pursue both her passions: design and equestrianism. It's an expensive sport, she says, and one that's tough to make a living in. "I feel lucky to have been able to participate all these years," she says.

Write to Nancy Keates at Nancy.Keates@wsj.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250213018134:0/)
