---
title: "Trump's China Threats Aren't a Bluff — Barrons.com"
date: "2025-02-12 02:22:00"
summary: "By Brian P. KleinAbout the author: Brian P. Klein is the founder of RidgePoint Global, a strategic advisory firm, and a former U.S. diplomat.President Donald Trump promised a radical approach to governing from day one, and he has delivered. The chaos shrouding the federal government has already spilled over to..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Brian P. Klein

About the author: Brian P. Klein is the founder of RidgePoint Global, a strategic advisory firm, and a former U.S. diplomat.

President Donald Trump promised a radical approach to governing from day one, and he has delivered. The chaos shrouding the federal government has already spilled over to international trade as tariffs begin to take hold. Many businesses and foreign leaders may consider Trump's threats to upend global trade as more bluster than reality. That would be misreading the signs of a fundamental shift in how the U.S. now conducts its foreign economic policy.

Trump and his advisers have specific plans for what Treasury Secretary Scott Bessent has called a "grand global economic reordering." If Trump doesn't get what he wants from China on trade, for example, he will likely move to more aggressive measures, despite the damage it may cause to U.S. consumers and businesses in the process.

And Elon Musk, one of China's last friends in Washington, won't be able to stop him, even if he wanted to.

The crisis that is building isn't accidental. For better and worse, Trump has triggered a political earthquake that aims to break the foundations of the world economy that stood for the greater part of the last century. It's now about fair trade for the U.S., as defined by Trump, not free trade for the world.

Gone are democratic ideals or even reliance on longstanding alliances, replaced instead by retail receipts to show how much countries buy from the U.S. and how many jobs they create here. All relationships now pivot on whether there's room for a deal on Trump's terms. If not, he appears more than ready to let loose chaos and confusion as he has across the federal government after only a few weeks in office.

While it's too early for a damage assessment, the U.S.-China relationship in particular is shaping up to be a major target of change for this administration. Trump imposed tariffs on a wide swath of Chinese goods during his first term. The Biden administration largely kept them in place while adding new restrictions including on chip-making equipment and advanced semiconductors. China raised its own trade restrictions in response. The trade deficit remained largely unchanged.

This pattern of recriminations will escalate if a fundamental impasse cannot be resolved, and there is little sign that it will.

China won't change its economic system of supporting companies because their political ideology requires it. The state directs growth, not the private sector. The U.S. won't accept what it sees as unfair market advantage from Chinese state support and the national security concerns they engender in products such as telecom equipment and electric vehicles. And as China's economy slows, there's little room for more investment into the U.S. or domestic consumption of U.S.-made goods.

To make matters worse, leaders in both countries believe they have the upper hand. Trump sees Beijing needing Washington far more than the other way around. Xi Jinping sees the U.S. as a nation in decline and appears willing to wait out the clock while China's global influence rises. The leaders have yet to talk since Trump became president, and neither seems in a rush to start.

China did make a modestly conciliatory gesture in response to Trump's limited 10% tariff increase, which was a gesture in its own right. While U.S. rate hikes encompass a range of Chinese goods, China chose to retaliate on a very limited number, and in many cases low value, of U.S. goods. That is as strong of a diplomatic signal as one can reasonably expect from Zhongnanhai, China's center of power.

In normal times, these moves would have engendered high-level diplomatic exchanges to pave the way for a head of state meeting. None of that appears to be happening.

If relations deteriorate, Trump could easily declare a "national emergency" targeting China. It wouldn't be his first such declaration. He announced an emergency at the southern border on the day he was inaugurated, giving himself new powers to round up illegal migrants.

There are a litany of reasons he could use, including the roughly $300 billion annual trade deficit, China's critical minerals restrictions that are key to U.S. industry (including the military), intellectual property theft, fentanyl drug ingredients flowing into the Americas, and suspected hacking of U.S. critical infrastructure.

Actions could include 100% tariffs on all Chinese goods (as Trump threatened during the election), visa restrictions, more severe curbs on inbound and outbound investment, and potentially cutting off Chinese financial institutions from the international banking system.

Extreme, perhaps, but so far the Trump administration appears willing to break things and let others clean up the pieces. His policies are likely to raise prices on a range of everyday goods, and he has already warned of short term pain for the U.S.

And while the initial tariffs on Canada and Mexico were temporarily shelved in lieu of action on fentanyl and illegal border crossings, those countries haven't escaped unscathed. Trump announced on Monday he would impose additional tariffs on steel imports. The top two steel exporters to the U.S. in 2023 were Canada and Mexico.

With so few moderating influences in the administration when it comes to China and a willingness to break norms, escalation seems inevitable. Both sides are preoccupied with projecting strength and both are predisposed to hard-line positions when pressed. If Trump was willing to torch relations with Canada and Mexico, and threaten the billions in trade and the jobs that go with them, he won't shy away from a full-on trade war with China.

Bessent in his nomination hearing pledged to pursue Beijing for goods purchases it was supposed to make after the so-called Phase one trade deal in 2019. It doesn't bode well for China that the administration believes Beijing didn't hold up its end of the bargain the last time around. New trade talks, if they ever occurred, would almost certainly be accompanied by even harsher strong-arm tactics from the White House.

The Trump administration might not have the diplomatic dexterity to achieve all its aims. Chaos, however, has its own way of wrecking the status quo, and that may be enough of a win no matter what it costs for consumers, businesses, and the global economic trading system.

Guest commentaries like this one are written by authors outside the Barron's newsroom. They reflect the perspective and opinions of the authors. Submit feedback and commentary pitches to ideas@barrons.com .

This content was created by Barron's, which is operated by Dow Jones & Co. Barron's is published independently from Dow Jones Newswires and The Wall Street Journal.

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250211008640:0/)
