---
title: "Nymex Overview: Oil Takes a Breather; Possible Ukraine Peace Talks in Focus — OPIS"
date: "2025-02-14 02:02:00"
summary: "Crude oil futures were flat in midday Thursday trade, reversing losses earlier in the session, as investors closely monitored news of a possible peace deal to end the Ukraine war.At 11:45 a.m. ET, the most-active NYMEX West Texas Intermediate contract for April delivery was off by 5cts to around $71.20/bbl,..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Crude oil futures were flat in midday Thursday trade, reversing losses earlier in the session, as investors closely monitored news of a possible peace deal to end the Ukraine war.

At 11:45 a.m. ET, the most-active NYMEX West Texas Intermediate contract for April delivery was off by 5cts to around $71.20/bbl, and March WTI inched down by 1ct to $71.35/bbl.

London-based ICE April Brent fell 15cts to about $75.05/bbl and May Brent dropped 20cts to $74.70/bbl.

April RBOB edged up 0.5ct to $2.318/gal and March RBOB was 1ct higher to $2.0995/gal. April ULSD fell 1.6cts to $2.3775/gal and March ULSD slipped 2cts to $2.432/gal.

Petroleum futures regained their footing Thursday, a day after crude prices lost nearly $2 and refined product contracts shed 2%-3% on potential Ukraine peace talks and after Fed Chair Jerome Powell signaled slower cuts to U.S. interest rates this year.

On Wednesday, President Trump said talks with Russian President Vladimir Putin to end the near three-year Ukraine war would start "immediately," after Trump held phone calls with both Putin and Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy.

Investors also digested news that the International Energy Agency modestly raised its forecast for global oil-demand growth. In its monthly report published Thursday, IEA also cited improved compliance with output quotas among members of OPEC and its allies, which is reducing a projected supply surplus in the market.

This content was created by Oil Price Information Service, which is operated by Dow Jones & Co. OPIS is run independently from Dow Jones Newswires and The Wall Street Journal.

* Reporting by Frank Tang, ftang@opisnet.com; Editing by Michael Kelly, mkelly@opisnet.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250213012931:0-nymex-overview-oil-takes-a-breather-possible-ukraine-peace-talks-in-focus-opis/)
