---
title: "Mexico Placates Trump But Reform Is Difficult — Barron's"
date: "2025-02-08 10:30:00"
summary: "By Craig MellowMexican President Claudia Sheinbaum deftly handled Donald Trump, for now. Diplomatic dexterity won't solve her country's internal problems, though.Of all Trump's potential trade war targets, Mexico is by far the most vulnerable, with exports to the U.S. close to a quarter of gross domestic product. China's figure is..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Craig Mellow

Mexican President Claudia Sheinbaum deftly handled Donald Trump, for now. Diplomatic dexterity won't solve her country's internal problems, though.

Of all Trump's potential trade war targets, Mexico is by far the most vulnerable, with exports to the U.S. close to a quarter of gross domestic product. China's figure is less than 3%.

The U.S. president announced 25% across-the-board tariffs on Mexican imports Feb 1. He agreed to a 30-day pause two days later, after Sheinbaum ordered 10,000 Mexican soldiers to her northern border, ostensibly to interdict migrants and fentanyl.

Markets are betting Mexico can keep buying off trade threats with border cooperation, as it did under Sheinbaum's predecessor and mentor, Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador, during Trump's first term. The peso quickly rebounded from a one-session panic. So did the iShares MSCI Mexico exchange-traded fund, which is starting 2025 with a frisky 7% gain.

"The Trump administration's main focus with regard to Mexico is immigration and drugs," says Arthur Budaghyan, chief emerging markets strategist at BCA Research. A subtler sign of continuity is the pending appointment of Christopher Landau, U.S. ambassador to Mexico during Trump 1.0, as deputy secretary of state. Trump laid aside America First rhetoric to sign an updated free-trade agreement with Mexico and Canada in 2018.

Sheinbaum signaled pliancy to El Norte without losing face at home, adds Duncan Wood, president of the Pacific Council on International Policy. Polls show her approval rating near 80% as a business community that tangled with Lopez Obrador rallies behind her. "She maintained national dignity while giving Trump a political win," Wood concludes.

An abating trade storm leaves Mexico's currency and bonds looking attractive, Budaghyan thinks. The peso has cratered 17% against the dollar over the past 12 months. The yield on 10-year local-currency sovereign debt is more than 10% while inflation dwindles toward 4% annually.

Sheinbaum's first budget, unveiled last November, squeezed budget deficits to (a projected) 3.9% of GDP from 6% in Lopez Obrador's profligate last year. "The market has not yet fully realized that the current president will be pragmatic and reasonably business-friendly," Budaghyan asserts.

A more bearish view comes from Thierry Larose, portfolio manager for emerging markets local debt at Vontobel Asset Management. Sheinbaum isn't addressing two serious inherited problems, he says: organized crime and state-owned oil monopoly Petróleos Mexicanos.

While Washington focuses on drug trafficking, domestic extortion and pilferage suck up to 20% of revenue out of Mexican enterprises, often nullifying the savings from lower labor costs, Larose calculates. Pemex is bleeding cash and is some $120 billion in debt. These twin evils helped slow Mexico's growth by more than half last year to 1.3%, with a similar outlook for 2025.

Sheinbaum has rejected market-based reforms at Pemex, like asset sales or spinning off money-losing refineries, Larose notes. On crime, she has yet to deviate from Lopez Obrador's ineffective "hugs not bullets" policy. "She's a female version of AMLO," he says, using the common acronym for the former president. "Some people say she is more open-minded. I don't think so." He sees "tactical opportunity in Mexican rates" all the same.

Sheinbaum has almost certainly not seen her last tense encounter with Trump either. Trade threats will remain in the air at least until 2026, when a "review" is scheduled for the U.S.-Mexico-Canada Agreement on a common North American market.

But Mexico's novice leader taught a master class on how to play a weak hand, for now.

To subscribe to Barron's, visit http://www.barrons.com/subscribe

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250206010691:0/)
