---
title: "Global Equities Roundup: Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-12 08:03:00"
summary: "The latest Market Talks covering Equities. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.1902 ET - DoorDash has been studying its approach to autonomous food deliveries for years, but it doesn't have anything to announce at the moment, CEO Tony Xu says on a call with analysts. Still, the..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The latest Market Talks covering Equities. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.

1902 ET - DoorDash has been studying its approach to autonomous food deliveries for years, but it doesn't have anything to announce at the moment, CEO Tony Xu says on a call with analysts. Still, the company is excited about all of the challenges that come with autonomy, the executive says. "I think a lot of us certainly working in the field probably either hoped for or expected this to have come sooner, but I think you're seeing just a lot of exciting existence proof points of what's to come," Xu says. So far, the company and its peers are looking into the total costs of operations that would come with it, he adds. Shares rise 5.7%, to $204.15, after the market close. (sabela.ojea@wsj.com; @sabelaojeaguix)

1849 ET - Japanese stocks may rise as a weaker yen raises hopes for domestic earnings growth. Nikkei futures are up 0.7% at 39060 on the SGX. USD/JPY is at 152.72, compared with 151.85 as of Monday's Tokyo stock market close. Japanese markets were closed Tuesday for a national holiday. Investors are focusing on earnings as well as U.S. trade policies. Toray Industries and Yamaha Motor are set to release their quarterly results later in the day. The Nikkei Stock Average closed flat at 38801.17 on Monday. (kosaku.narioka@wsj.com)

1849 ET - DoorDash's international food-delivery business is growing, CFO Ravi Inukonda says on a call with analysts. "We're growing substantially faster than peers," Inukonda says, adding that the company reached all-time high monthly active users. Its order frequency continues to grow, too, Inukonda says. The company's goal is to scale the international business to drive efficiency, which will continue to lead to more gross profit in the system, the executive says. "We are very pleased with the performance of the business so far." Shares rise 5.7%, to $204.00, in post-market trading. (sabela.ojea@wsj.com; @sabelaojeaguix)

1847 ET - Evolution Mining avoids widespread selling pressure on Australia's benchmark ASX 200 index today after posting a 1H earnings beat, but Jefferies stays cautious on the gold producer. Evolution's 1H Ebitda was 7% higher than analyst Mitch Ryan's expectations. Net debt fell to A$1.48 billion and gearing is declining. Recent cash generation, improved operational consistency, and strong commodity prices will continue to support Evolution's efforts to bring debt down, Jefferies says. "However we remain cautious ahead of crystallization of several significant projects' capital over FY 2025, required to maintain long-term production volume, which could limit free cash flow generation until FY 2030," Jefferies says. The stock is up 1.1%. (david.winning@wsj.com; @dwinningWSJ)

1837 ET - Suncorp shares are up 4.2%, the second-highest gainer on Australia's benchmark ASX 200 index, after its 1H earnings beat expectations. Suncorp reported a A$1.1 billion net profit, well above Citi's A$990 million forecast. "While most of the beat is due to favorable weather, there is also a slightly stronger result from NZ Life and slightly stronger than expected net insurance revenue growth," analyst Nigel Pittaway says. Citi, which has a neutral call on Suncorp, says the capital return to shareholders from proceeds of selling Suncorp Bank to ANZ looks in line with expectations. (david.winning@wsj.com; @dwinningWSJ)

1836 ET - Breville plans to sell directly into China and Citi thinks the appliance maker's learnings from South Korea could increase its chances of success there. Analyst Sam Teeger notes that both markets are highly digital, with 98% of Breville products in China already sold online. Breville launched in South Korea in June 2022 and it has already surpassed New Zealand in terms of gross profit. That suggests Breville may have found an approach that works well with markets that mainly transact online, Citi says. "Taking this into consideration, as well as the 32% increase in disposable income that Breville is exposed to from direct entry into China, we see this as a significant opportunity," Citi says. It retains a "neutral" call on Breville's stock. (david.winning@wsj.com; @dwinningWSJ)

1831 ET - Breville plans to sell directly into China and Citi thinks the appliances maker's learnings from South Korea could increase its chances of success there. Analyst Sam Teeger notes that both markets are highly digital, with 98% of Breville products in China already sold online. Breville launched in South Korea in June 2022 and it has already surpassed New Zealand in terms of gross profit. That suggests Breville may have found an approach that works well with markets that mainly transact online, Citi says. "Taking this into consideration, as well as the 32% increase in disposable income that Breville is exposed to from direct entry into China, we see this as a significant opportunity," Citi says. It retains a neutral call on Breville's stock. (david.winning@wsj.com; @dwinningWSJ)

1818 ET - Lyft's CEO David Risher plans to take part in the robotaxi race by launching around 1,000 Mobileye powered-robotaxis in Dallas as early as 2026, the executive says on a call with analysts. The company is getting financing from Japanese trading and investment firm Marubeni. "They're expensive assets," Risher says, adding that since, most cars get less valuable over time, the company needed an expert in financing its robotaxis. Last week, rival Uber Technologies' shares declined after the company reported lower-than-expected income for the fourth quarter and the market questioned the company's plans to compete in the robotaxi race. Lyft shares drop 10% to $12.85. Uber shares fall 2.5% to $75. (sabela.ojea@wsj.com; @sabelaojeaguix)

1803 ET - Lyft's outlook for the first quarter was mainly affected by a pricing war with its competitors since the fourth quarter, together with people taking less, and shorter rides after the holidays, CFO Erin Brewer says on a call with analysts. The company had to lower prices, and if the price environment stays sustainably lower, that could translate into a low-single digit percentage point impact to the ride-sharing company's gross bookings in 2025, Brewer says. Brewer adds that the end of a long exclusive partnership with Delta Air Lines, who recently tapped Uber in a new deal, will also hit rides and gross bookings by 1% to 2%, starting in the second quarter. Shares fall 10% to $12.95 after hours. (sabela.ojea@wsj.com; @sabelaojeaguix)

1800 ET - Commonwealth Bank's bear at Citi doesn't see anything in the lender's first-half result to justify its recent share-price run. Analyst Brendan Sproules acknowledges that CBA's cash earnings were about 1.5% ahead of his forecast, but tells clients in a note that the overall result is solid rather than strong. He adds that asset quality and loan growth were the key positives, but points out that management expects both to moderate as the economy slows. Citi has a last-published sell rating and A$91.50 target price on the stock, which is at A$162.16 ahead of the open. (stuart.condie@wsj.com)

1742 ET - Bravura Solutions' latest guidance upgrade should be well received by investors given how swiftly it follows the last, E&P analyst Olivier Coulon says. He tells clients in a note that he expects the Australian software developer's shares to outperform even though its first-half underlying profit fell short of forecasts. Coulon points out that the improved earnings guidance range is 12% higher at the midpoint than that issued by the company only in December. The latest upgrade appears to be at least partly revenue led, he adds. E&P has a positive rating and A$2.21 target price on the stock, which is at A$2.31 ahead of the open. (stuart.condie@wsj.com)

1730 ET - CSL's vaccines business is in need of a shot in the arm. UBS says CSL's Seqirus unit missed its 1H revenue forecast by 6% as U.S. demand weakened again. Analyst Laura Sutcliffe thinks elevated flu cases in FY 2025 will drive a recovery in immunization rates the following year, but probably not back to FY 2024 levels. "In general, margins tend to scale with sales in vaccines," UBS says. Government contracts for H5 (bird flu) pandemic readiness are a bright spot. UBS estimates revenue from these contracts at US$150 million in 2H, building on an estimated in US$60 million in 1H. Still, UBS believes the percentage drop in FY 2025 vaccine sales will be in the mid-to-high teens when these contracts are excluded. (david.winning@wsj.com; @dwinningWSJ)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250211012993:0/)
