---
title: "News Highlights: Top Company News of the Day - Wednesday at 11 PM ET"
date: "2025-02-13 12:00:00"
summary: "Jamie Dimon Sounds Off on Remote Work, Bureaucracy, 'Pablum and Bulls-'JPMorgan Chase CEO doesn't hold back answering questions during an internal meeting with staffers of the financial giant.Cisco Systems Raises Revenue Forecast as Profit and Sales Beat EstimatesCEO Chuck Robbins said the company is positioned to capitalize on demand for..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

**Jamie Dimon Sounds Off on Remote Work, Bureaucracy, 'Pablum and Bulls-'**

JPMorgan Chase CEO doesn't hold back answering questions during an internal meeting with staffers of the financial giant.

**Cisco Systems Raises Revenue Forecast as Profit and Sales Beat Estimates**

CEO Chuck Robbins said the company is positioned to capitalize on demand for artificial intelligence.

**Musk's X Agrees to Pay About $10 Million to Settle Trump Lawsuit**

The platform becomes the second social-media company to settle with Trump after Jan. 6, 2021, riot triggered bans.

**BuzzFeed to Cut About 5% of Workforce**

BuzzFeed expects to reduce about 5% of its workforce, seeking to streamline its HuffPost news operations.

**Robinhood Stock Jumps as Earnings Blow Past Forecasts**

Robinhood benefited from a surge in investor activity as customers piled into stocks and cryptocurrencies.

**Intel's stock is on a run not seen in more than two decades**

Intel's stock has enjoyed a strong three-day rally, fueled by a hospitable political climate and analyst commentary about its CPU business.

**Reddit turns second quarterly profit since IPO but shares slide on user-growth miss**

Reddit Inc. turned its second quarterly profit since becoming a public company, but shares fell after daily active unique users - which topped 100 million for the first time - fell short of expectations.

**The Big Question Looming Over Deere Earnings**

Farmers are already having a tough time. How much will Trump's tariffs impact the company's sales?

**Applovin Revenue Surges on Advertising Business**

The company, which owns "Matchington Mansion" and "Game of War," said it's looking to close the sale of its mobile gaming division in the second quarter.

**FCC set to investigate media giant Comcast over diversity commitments and says it could shut down DEI programs elsewhere**

Comcast says it 'will be cooperating with the FCC to answer their questions'

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250212017301:0/)
