---
title: "American Consumer Likely to Pay Cost of Proposed Aluminum Tariffs, South32 CEO Says — Interview"
date: "2025-02-13 16:05:00"
summary: "(08:05 GMT) *South32 CEO: U.S. Accounted for 16% of Aluminum Revenue During 1H FY25(08:05 GMT) *South32 CEO: Don't Expect Tariffs Would Result in Higher U.S. Aluminum Output(08:05 GMT) *South32 CEO: Haven't Considered Building Aluminum Smelting Capacity in U.S.(08:05 GMT) *South32 CEO: Have No Intention to Add to Aluminum Capacity Beyond..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

**(08:05 GMT)** \*South32 CEO: U.S. Accounted for 16% of Aluminum Revenue During 1H FY25  
**(08:05 GMT)** \*South32 CEO: Don't Expect Tariffs Would Result in Higher U.S. Aluminum Output  
**(08:05 GMT)** \*South32 CEO: Haven't Considered Building Aluminum Smelting Capacity in U.S.  
**(08:05 GMT)** \*South32 CEO: Have No Intention to Add to Aluminum Capacity Beyond Production Creep  
**(08:05 GMT)** American Consumer Likely to Pay Cost of Proposed Aluminum Tariffs, South32 CEO Says — Interview

By Rhiannon Hoyle

Aluminum maker South32 sells thousands of tons of the metal each month to the U.S., and its chief executive isn't expecting that to change as President Trump prepares blanket duties on imports of a commodity used in everything from cars to cans to airplanes.

Instead, Graham Kerr said he expects the American consumer would bear the cost of planned tariffs on aluminum shipments to the U.S., which has little domestic production compared with its needs and relies heavily on metal from Canada and other countries.

Ultimately, "the end user is going to be paying more," Kerr said Thursday after South32 reported earnings for the second half of 2024. The miner said its profit rose more than sixfold from the prior-year period on higher market prices for commodities, including aluminum.

South32, a company spun out of mining giant BHP Group a decade ago, is one of the Western world's top aluminum producers.

Sales to the U.S. from the Hillside aluminum smelter in South Africa, the largest in the Southern Hemisphere, accounted for roughly 16% of the revenue South32 made from its aluminum business for the half-year period.

While that figure can fluctuate a little depending on market prices, Kerr said he isn't anticipating Trump's tariff plans will have a meaningful impact on where South32 sells its metal.

"The reality is, from our perspective, it probably won't impact our product placement too much," said Kerr.

That could change if tariffs lead to increased U.S. production of aluminum, Kerr said. Currently, the U.S. relies on imports for more than 80% of its needs.

He expects future aluminum production growth to happen outside of China, but it's unlikely to be in the U.S., Kerr said. Cheap, renewable energy is needed to power the aluminum smelters of the future, meaning development is more likely in places such as Canada and Europe as well as Indonesia and Malaysia, Kerr said.

To be sure, it remains unclear whether tariffs are more a negotiating tactic than a long-term policy of the Trump administration, Kerr said.

Trump has said the tariffs, due to go into effect next month, are "the beginning of making America rich again."

It is hard to see how the U.S. could shake its dependence, particularly on Canada, which accounts for more than half its imports of aluminum, South32's Kerr said.

South32 mostly sells its aluminum into Europe. In addition to the Hillside operation, it runs a smelter near Maputo in Mozambique. It also has a 40% stake in a Brazilian smelter run by Alcoa.

South32 has no intention of building an aluminum smelter in the U.S. or anywhere else, said Kerr. The company's existing operations provide sufficient exposure to the market, he said.

South32 has been sharpening its focus on minerals and metals it expects will be critical to the world's energy transition. It recently sold an Australian coal business.

Its growth plans center on the U.S., but in other metals. The miner is currently building a $2.16 billion zinc, lead and silver mine in southern Arizona.

In September, South32 said it was told it could get a $166 million grant from the Energy Department to develop a battery-grade manganese operation to supply the North American electric-vehicle battery market. Earlier in 2024, it was awarded a $20 million grant from the Defense Department.

Kerr said that funding remains in place.

Write to Rhiannon Hoyle at rhiannon.hoyle@wsj.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250213003961:0/)
