---
title: "Trump Wants 'Reciprocal Tarrifs' on Any Country. What That Means. — Barrons.com"
date: "2025-02-09 02:45:00"
summary: "By Sabrina EscobarIf there's one thing President Donald Trump likes, it's keeping people on their toes. His latest tariff announcement did just that, sowing confusion among markets and the international community.On Friday, Trump said he plans to announce reciprocal tariffs next week on countries with their own levies on U.S...."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Sabrina Escobar

If there's one thing President Donald Trump likes, it's keeping people on their toes. His latest tariff announcement did just that, sowing confusion among markets and the international community.

On Friday, Trump said he plans to announce reciprocal tariffs next week on countries with their own levies on U.S. imports, fulfilling a longstanding campaign promise.

The announcement made investors jittery, prompting the U.S. stock market to slump Friday afternoon. The S&P 500 closed 0.9% lower, while the Dow Jones Industrial Average fell 1% and the Nasdaq Composite fell 1.4%.

The president didn't release many details Friday, adding to the market's sense of uncertainty. But his past comments provide clues as to how the tariffs could shape up.

What Are 'Reciprocal' Tariffs?

"Reciprocal tariffs" isn't a technical term defined by international trade organizations, experts say. Rather, it is a phrase Trump uses to refer to the changes U.S. customs will make to — in the words of his campaign — "ensure reciprocal and fair trade."

While the administration has yet to reveal the exact nature of these tariffs, Trump's previous comments hint toward what he hopes to implement.

"If India, China, or any other country hits us with a 100 or 200 percent tariff on American-made goods, we will hit them with the same exact tariff," he said in campaign promotional material from 2023. "In other words, 100 percent is 100 percent. If they charge U.S., we charge THEM — an eye for an eye, a tariff for a tariff, same exact amount."

Why Do Countries Have Tariffs on the U.S.?

Under World Trade Organization rules, member countries have the right to impose tariffs on imports. Countries negotiate those rates at the WTO, and the final outcome determines the maximum tariff rate a member country can impose on imports from other member countries. Those rates are largely universal — they apply equally to the U.S. as they do to another country, unless members have signed a free-trade agreement or are embroiled in a trade war.

Member countries have taken different approaches to tariffs. Some have historically kept their tariff rate high — Bermuda had a mean tariff rate of 29.5% on all imports in 2022, according to World Bank data. Other WTO members, like the U.S., have opted to keep duties low to encourage free trade. Developed economies have tended to lean against higher tariffs: Australia, the U.S., Japan, and Canada are among the countries with the lowest tariffs in the world, according to a Capital Alpha Partners analysis. The average tariff rate for the U.S. was 3.3%, according to the analysis.

"Those negotiations happened, everyone eventually got to a negotiated deal and now those tariffs are kind of set in stone," said Christine McDaniel, senior research fellow at Mercatus Center and former senior trade economist in the White House Council of Economic Advisers.

What Countries Would Be Affected?

In his comments Friday, Trump said the tariffs would apply to "everyone, " so any country with tariffs on the U.S.

That could shape up to be dozens — if not most — of the U.S.' trading partners, given that many countries' universal duties apply to U.S. imports.

"There's virtually no country that engages entirely in free trade," said Brett House, an economics professor at Columbia Business School.

Broadly increasing tariffs on "everyone" would be a logistical nightmare, McDaniel said, adding that since countries have different rates for specific products, there will be "tens and thousands" of tariff codes that customs agencies would have to reset.

It's possible Trump takes a more targeted approach to the reciprocal tariffs instead, singling out countries, regions, or industries, experts say. India and the European Union, for example, are already in his crosshairs for what Trump calls unfavorable trade terms. In regards to the EU, Trump has often complained that the bloc's duties for cars and agricultural products are too high.

"It will definitely happen with the European Union, I can tell you that, " Trump told reporters Feb. 2. "I wouldn't say there's a timeline but it's going to be pretty soon."

What Does This Mean for Trade Relations?

A trade war will inevitably strain relationships with key partners. For one, the sweeping changes in tariff rates could be in violation of WTO rules, McDaniel said. That gives member countries the right to lodge a complaint against the U.S. and to impose retaliatory tariffs. These tariffs would increase duties only on U.S. imports, on top of any existing universal tariffs.

"I don't think we're in a de-escalation time," said Laura Siegel Rabinowitz, an international trade lawyer at Greenberg Traurig.

Bigger trade partners may feel particularly emboldened to go down the retaliatory route. China has already announced a slate of retaliatory tariffs, and has lodged a dispute with the WTO. Mexico and Canada could be next, if the U.S. goes through with plans to levy 25% tariffs on imported goods. Those tariffs, announced Feb. 1, are currently on pause.

That said, many countries may try to negotiate with Trump to avoid an all-out trade war, as Mexico and Canada did to stave off the immediate threat of tariffs.

Indeed, the idea of a higher U.S. tariff rate may have already prompted India to take pre-emptive action. Before 2019, the country had a 100% levy on imported motorcycles, such as Harley-Davidson bikes. Following criticism from Trump, India slashed its tariff to 50% in 2019. Just this February, New Delhi trimmed the rate again to 30%.

Europe may also be looking to appease Trump before the worst of the tariffs hit. While EU officials have said they plan to "respond firmly" to arbitrary tariffs, the Financial Times on Friday reported the bloc was considering cutting its 10% tariff on U.S. car imports to avoid a trade war. A spokesperson for the European Parliament didn't immediately respond to Barron's' request confirming the report.

And the Economy?

Increasing tariffs across the board would reverse the U.S. commitment's to free trade, "one of the most fundamental cornerstones" that has undergirded U.S. policy for roughly eight decades, House said. That will have sweeping repercussions on the U.S. economy.

"By retreating from free trade, the White House is likely to impose significant costs on American consumers and businesses and dampen the growth that would otherwise happen in the U.S. economy," he added.

The proposed tariffs on China, Mexico, and Canada alone could drive up inflation by 0.6% in the short-term, and create a 0.2% drag on real gross domestic product growth, according to estimates from economists at the Peterson Institute for International Economics.

On the flip side, Trump may successfully use the threat of reciprocal tariffs to lower duties for U.S. exports in a number of countries, which he says could help bolster American manufacturing and narrow the country's trade deficit.

Can Trump Do This?

Because the White House hasn't made an official announcement, it is unclear what statutes or authority Trump will use to make the tariff changes.

That said, the president does have authority to negotiate changes in U.S. trade policy, experts say, but it isn't limitless. Bigger trade reforms may need a signoff from Congress, or undergo longer study by corresponding government agencies, Rabinowitz said.

So far, Trump has bypassed these lengthier processes by framing the tariff changes as a national security issue, which gives the president even more leeway to set trade terms. All three executive orders imposing tariffs on Mexico, China, and Canada cited the influx of fentanyl as a national emergency. Making the case that broader tariff changes constitute an emergency may be tougher, Rabinowitz said.

"There will be legal challenges, no question," she said. "Will it stand up? I think the China, Canada and Mexico executive orders, I think those will stand up, I think he's got the case that there is a national emergency. But this? I don't know."

Write to Sabrina Escobar at sabrina.escobar@barrons.com

This content was created by Barron's, which is operated by Dow Jones & Co. Barron's is published independently from Dow Jones Newswires and The Wall Street Journal.

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250208000927:0/)
