---
title: "2024 Annual Results and 2025 Guidance Announced by NNN REIT, Inc."
date: "2025-02-11 21:30:00"
summary: "(13:30 GMT) *NNN REIT 4Q Adjusted FFO/Shr 82c &gt;NNN(13:30 GMT) *NNN REIT 4Q Net $97.9M &gt;NNN(13:30 GMT) *NNN REIT 4Q Rev $218.5M &gt;NNN(13:30 GMT) *NNN REIT 4Q FFO 82c/Shr &gt;NNN(13:30 GMT) Press Release: 2024 Annual Results and 2025 Guidance Announced by NNN REIT, Inc.2024 Annual Results and 2025 Guidance Announced..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

**(13:30 GMT)** \*NNN REIT 4Q Adjusted FFO/Shr 82c >NNN  
**(13:30 GMT)** \*NNN REIT 4Q Net $97.9M >NNN  
**(13:30 GMT)** \*NNN REIT 4Q Rev $218.5M >NNN  
**(13:30 GMT)** \*NNN REIT 4Q FFO 82c/Shr >NNN  
**(13:30 GMT)** Press Release: 2024 Annual Results and 2025 Guidance Announced by NNN REIT, Inc.

2024 Annual Results and 2025 Guidance Announced by NNN REIT, Inc.

PR Newswire

ORLANDO, Fla., Feb. 11, 2025

ORLANDO, Fla., Feb. 11, 2025 /PRNewswire/ — NNN REIT, Inc. , a real estate investment trust, today announced operating results for the quarter and year ended December 31, 2024. Highlights include:

Operating Results:

* Revenues and net earnings, FFO, Core FFO and AFFO and diluted per share amounts: Quarter Ended Year Ended December 31, December 31, 2024 2023 2024 2023 -------- -------- -------- -------- (in thousands, except per share data)

```
Revenues    $218,482  $216,231       $869,266  $828,111   
   
Net   
 earnings   $ 97,894  $ 96,682       $396,835  $392,340   
Net   
 earnings   
 per   
 share      $   0.52  $   0.53  (1)  $   2.15  $   2.16  (1)   
   
FFO         $152,689  $151,712       $610,501  $589,074   
FFO per   
 share      $   0.82  $   0.83  (1)  $   3.32  $   3.24  (1)   
   
Core FFO    $152,731  $154,281       $611,169  $592,528   
Core FFO   
 per   
 share      $   0.82  $   0.85  (1)  $   3.32  $   3.26  (1)   
   
AFFO        $154,057  $148,997       $616,613  $591,523   
AFFO per   
 share      $   0.82  $   0.82       $   3.35  $   3.26   
   
   
   
(1)  During the quarter ended December 31, 2023, one tenant was reclassified   
     to accrual basis for accounting purposes due to their improved   
     qualitative and quantitative credit factors, which resulted in an   
     increase of accrued rent in the amount of $5,573. Excluding such, net   
     earnings per share would have been $0.50 and $2.13, FFO per share would   
     have been $0.80 and $3.21 and Core FFO would have been $0.82 and $3.23   
     for the quarter and year ended December 31, 2023, respectively.   
 
```

2024 Highlights:

* FFO per share increased 2.5% over prior year results
* Core FFO per share increased 1.8% over prior year results
* AFFO per share increased 2.8% over prior year results
* Dividend yield of 5.6% at December 31, 2024
* Annual dividend per common share increased to $2.29 marking the 35th consecutive year of annual dividend increases - the third longest record of consecutive annual dividend increases of all public REITs
* Maintained high occupancy levels at 98.5%, with a weighted average remaining lease term of 9.9 years, at December 31, 2024 as compared to 99.3% at September 30, 2024, and 99.5% at December 31, 2023
* $565.4 million in property investments, including the acquisition of 75 properties with aggregate gross leasable area of approximately 1,486,000 square feet at an initial cash cap rate of 7.7%, with a weighted average remaining lease term of 18.5 years
* Sold 41 properties for $148.7 million, producing $42.3 million of gains on sales, at a cap rate of 7.3%
* Raised $214.3 million in net proceeds from issuance of 4,716,754 common shares
* Issued $500 million principal amount of 5.500% senior unsecured notes due 2034
* Redeemed $350 million principal amount of 3.900% senior unsecured notes due 2024
* Expanded line of credit borrowing capacity from $1.1 billion to $1.2 billion and extended maturity to April 2028
* Maintained sector leading 12.1 year weighted average debt maturity
* Total average annual shareholder returns (11.1% for the past 30 years) exceed industry equity averages for the past 3-, 15-, 20-, 25- and 30-years

Fourth Quarter 2024 Highlights:

* $216.8 million in property investments, including the acquisition of 31 properties with an aggregate gross leasable area of approximately 305,000 square feet at an initial cash cap rate of 7.6%, with a weighted average remaining lease term of 19.8 years
* Sold 12 properties for $42.8 million, producing $12.1 million of gains on sales

NNN has initiated eviction proceedings for 64 properties leased to a mid-western restaurant operator. As of December 31, 2024, NNN had taken back possession of 33 of those properties of which 28 properties have been re-leased to another restaurant operator with rent commencing May 1, 2025. NNN is working to take possession of the remainder of the properties in the first quarter of 2025. Additionally, during the fourth quarter of 2024, NNN took possession of 32 properties previously leased to a southeast U.S. furniture retailer that had filed for bankruptcy. As of December 31, 2024, NNN had sold six of these properties generating net proceeds of $21.8 million and re-leased five of these properties.

The company announced 2025 Core FFO guidance of $3.33 to $3.38 per share. The 2025 AFFO is estimated to be $3.39 to $3.44 per share. The Core FFO guidance equates to net earnings of $1.97 to $2.02 per share, plus $1.36 per share of expected real estate depreciation and amortization and excludes any gains from the sale of real estate, charges for impairments and executive retirement costs. The guidance is based on current plans and assumptions and subject to risks and uncertainties more fully described in this press release and the company's reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.

Steve Horn, Chief Executive Officer, commented: "In 2024, we executed more than $560 million in acquisitions with minimal reliance on capital markets and ended the year with a zero balance on our revolving credit facility. With the full $1.2 billion available on our line of credit and approximately $200 million in free cash flow, we are in a strong position to drive property acquisitions and capitalize on relationship opportunities in 2025."

NNN REIT invests primarily in high-quality retail properties subject generally to long-term, net leases. As of December 31, 2024, the company owned 3,568 properties in 49 states with a gross leasable area of approximately 36.6 million square feet and a weighted average remaining lease term of 9.9 years. NNN is one of only three publicly traded real estate investment trusts to have increased annual dividends for 35 or more consecutive years. For more information on the company, visit www.nnnreit.com.

Management will hold a conference call on February 11, 2025, at 10:30 a.m. ET to review these results. The call can be accessed on the NNN REIT website live at http://www.nnnreit.com. For those unable to listen to the live broadcast, a replay will be available on the company's website. In addition, a summary of any earnings guidance given on the call will be posted to the company's website.

Statements in this press release that are not strictly historical are "forward-looking" statements. These statements generally are characterized by the use of terms such as "believe," "expect," "intend," "may," "estimated," or other similar words or expressions. Forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, which may cause the company's actual future results to differ materially from expected results. These risks include, among others, general economic conditions, including inflation, local real estate conditions, changes in interest rates, increases in operating costs, the preferences and financial condition of the company's tenants, the availability of capital, risks related to the company's status as a real estate investment trust ("REIT") and the potential impacts of an epidemic or pandemic on the company's business operations, financial results and financial position on the world economy. Additional information concerning these and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from these forward-looking statements is contained from time to time in the company's Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Commission") filings, including, but not limited to, the company's Annual Report on Form 10-K. Copies of each filing may be obtained from the company or the Commission. Such forward-looking statements should be regarded solely as reflections of the company's current operating plans and estimates. Actual operating results may differ materially from what is expressed or forecast in this press release. NNN REIT, Inc. undertakes no obligation to publicly release the results of any revisions to these forward-looking statements that may be made to reflect events or circumstances after the date these statements were made.

Funds From Operations, commonly referred to as "FFO", is a relative non-GAAP financial measure of operating performance of an equity REIT in order to recognize that income-producing real estate historically has not depreciated on the basis determined under GAAP. FFO is defined by the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts ("Nareit") and is used by the company as follows: net earnings (computed in accordance with GAAP) plus depreciation and amortization of assets unique to the real estate industry, excluding gains (or including losses), any applicable taxes and noncontrolling interests on the disposition of certain assets, the company's share of these items from the company's noncontrolling interests and any impairment charges on a depreciable real estate asset, net of recoveries.

FFO is generally considered by industry analysts to be the most appropriate measure of performance of real estate companies. FFO does not necessarily represent cash provided by operating activities in accordance with GAAP and should not be considered an alternative to net earnings as an indication of the company's performance or to cash flow as a measure of liquidity or ability to make distributions. Management considers FFO an appropriate measure of performance of an equity REIT because it primarily excludes the assumption that the value of the real estate assets diminishes predictably over time, and because industry analysts have accepted it as a performance measure. The company's computation of FFO may differ from the methodology for calculating FFO used by other equity REITs, and therefore, may not be comparable to such other REITs. A reconciliation of net earnings (computed in accordance with GAAP) to FFO, as defined by Nareit, is included in the financial information accompanying this release.

Core Funds From Operations ("Core FFO") is a non-GAAP measure of operating performance that adjusts FFO to eliminate the impact of certain GAAP income and expense amounts that the company believes are infrequent and unusual in nature and/or not related to its core real estate operations. Exclusion of these items from similar FFO-type metrics is common within the REIT industry, and management believes that presentation of Core FFO provides investors with a potential metric to assist in their evaluation of the company's operating performance across multiple periods and in comparison to the operating performance of its peers because it removes the effect of unusual items that are not expected to impact the company's operating performance on an ongoing basis. Core FFO is used by management in evaluating the performance of the company's core business operations and is a factor in determining management compensation. Items included in calculating FFO that may be excluded in calculating Core FFO may include items such as transaction related gains, income or expense, impairments on land, executive retirement costs, or other non-core amounts as they occur. The company's computation of Core FFO may differ from the methodology for calculating Core FFO used by other equity REITs, and therefore, may not be comparable to such other REITs. A reconciliation of net earnings (computed in accordance with GAAP) to Core FFO is included in the financial information accompanying this release.

Adjusted Funds From Operations ("AFFO") is a non-GAAP financial measure of operating performance used by many companies in the REIT industry. AFFO adjusts FFO for certain non-cash items that reduce or increase net income in accordance with GAAP. AFFO should not be considered an alternative to net earnings, as an indication of the company's performance or to cash flow as a measure of liquidity or ability to make distributions. Management considers AFFO a useful supplemental measure of the company's performance. The company's computation of AFFO may differ from the methodology for calculating AFFO used by other equity REITs, and therefore, may not be comparable to such other REITs. A reconciliation of net earnings (computed in accordance with GAAP) to AFFO is included in the financial information accompanying this release.

Earnings Before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation and Amortization for Real Estate as defined by Nareit ("EBITDA") is a metric established by Nareit and commonly used by real estate companies. The measure is a result of net earnings (computed in accordance with GAAP), plus interest expense, income tax expense, depreciation and amortization, excluding any gains (or including any losses) on disposition of real estate, any impairment charges and after adjustments for income and losses attributable to noncontrolling interests. Management considers the non-GAAP measure of EBITDA to be an appropriate measure of the company's performance and should be considered in addition to, net earnings or loss, as a measure of the company's operating performance. The company's computation of EBITDA may differ from the methodology for calculating EBITDA used by other equity REITs, and therefore, may not be comparable to such other REITs. A reconciliation of net earnings (computed in accordance with GAAP) to EBITDA, as defined by Nareit, is included in the company's Annual Supplemental Data accompanying this release.

```
   
                                  NNN REIT, Inc.   
                              Income Statement Summary   
                   (dollars in thousands, except per share data)   
                                    (unaudited)   
   
                         Quarter Ended                      Year Ended   
                          December 31,                     December 31,   
                       2024          2023               2024          2023   
                   ------------  ------------       ------------  ------------   
Revenues:   
 Rental income     $    218,348  $    215,178       $    867,468  $    826,090   
 Interest and   
  other income   
  from real   
  estate   
  transactions              134         1,053              1,798         2,021   
                    -----------   -----------        -----------   -----------   
                        218,482       216,231            869,266       828,111   
Operating   
expenses:   
 General and   
  administrative          8,705        10,530             44,287        43,746   
 Real estate             11,142         8,237             32,317        28,378   
 Depreciation and   
  amortization           63,194        60,079            249,681       238,625   
 Leasing   
  transaction   
  costs                      24            76                 99           299   
 Impairment   
  losses -- real   
  estate, net of   
  recoveries              3,724         2,315              6,632         5,990   
 Executive   
  retirement   
  costs                      42         2,569                668         3,454   
                    -----------   -----------        -----------   -----------   
                         86,831        83,806            333,684       320,492   
Gain on   
 disposition of   
 real estate             12,083         7,263             42,290        47,485   
                    -----------   -----------        -----------   -----------   
Earnings from   
 operations             143,734       139,688            577,872       555,104   
                    -----------   -----------        -----------   -----------   
   
Other expenses   
(revenues):   
 Interest and   
  other income          (1,040)         (383)            (2,980)       (1,134)   
 Interest expense        46,880        43,389            184,017       163,898   
                    -----------   -----------        -----------   -----------   
                         45,840        43,006            181,037       162,764   
                    -----------   -----------        -----------   -----------   
   
Net earnings       $     97,894  $     96,682       $    396,835  $    392,340   
                    ===========   ===========        ===========   ===========   
   
Weighted average   
shares   
outstanding:   
 Basic              186,449,345   181,425,202        183,688,562   181,200,040   
                    ===========   ===========        ===========   ===========   
 Diluted            186,833,150   181,932,133        184,043,841   181,689,723   
                    ===========   ===========        ===========   ===========   
   
Net earnings per   
share:   
 Basic             $       0.52  $       0.53       $       2.16  $       2.16   
                    ===========   ===========        ===========   ===========   
 Diluted           $       0.52  $       0.53  (1)  $       2.15  $       2.16  (1)   
                    ===========   ===========        ===========   ===========   
   
   
   
(1)  During the quarter ended December 31, 2023, one tenant was reclassified   
     to accrual basis for accounting purposes due to their improved   
     qualitative and quantitative credit factors, which resulted in an   
     increase of accrued rent in the amount of $5,573. Excluding such, net   
     earnings per common share would have been $0.50 and $2.13 for the quarter   
     and year ended December 31, 2023, respectively.   
   
   
                            NNN REIT, Inc.   
             (dollars in thousands, except per share data)   
                              (unaudited)   
   
                      Quarter Ended               Year Ended   
                      December 31,               December 31,   
                     2024       2023           2024       2023   
                   ---------  --------       ---------  ---------   
Funds From   
Operations   
("FFO")   
Reconciliation:   
----------------   
 Net earnings      $  97,894  $ 96,682       $ 396,835  $ 392,340   
 Real estate   
  depreciation   
  and   
  amortization        63,154    59,978         249,324    238,229   
 Gain on   
  disposition of   
  real estate       (12,083)   (7,263)        (42,290)   (47,485)   
 Impairment   
  losses --   
  depreciable   
  real estate,   
  net of   
  recoveries           3,724     2,315           6,632      5,990   
                    --------   -------        --------   --------   
   Total FFO   
    adjustments       54,795    55,030         213,666    196,734   
                    --------   -------        --------   --------   
FFO                $ 152,689  $151,712       $ 610,501  $ 589,074   
                    ========   =======        ========   ========   
   
FFO per share:   
 Basic             $    0.82  $   0.84       $    3.32  $    3.25   
                    ========   =======        ========   ========   
 Diluted           $    0.82  $   0.83  (1)  $    3.32  $    3.24  (1)   
                    ========   =======        ========   ========   
   
Core Funds From   
Operations   
("Core FFO")   
Reconciliation:   
----------------   
 Net earnings      $  97,894  $ 96,682       $ 396,835  $ 392,340   
 Total FFO   
  adjustments         54,795    55,030         213,666    196,734   
                    --------   -------        --------   --------   
 FFO                 152,689   151,712         610,501    589,074   
   
 Executive   
  retirement   
  costs                   42     2,569             668      3,454   
                    --------   -------        --------   --------   
   Total Core FFO   
    adjustments           42     2,569             668      3,454   
                    --------   -------        --------   --------   
Core FFO           $ 152,731  $154,281       $ 611,169  $ 592,528   
                    ========   =======        ========   ========   
   
Core FFO per   
share:   
 Basic             $    0.82  $   0.85       $    3.33  $    3.27   
                    ========   =======        ========   ========   
 Diluted           $    0.82  $   0.85  (1)  $    3.32  $    3.26  (1)   
                    ========   =======        ========   ========   
   
   
   
(1)  During the quarter ended December 31, 2023, one tenant was reclassified   
     to accrual basis for accounting purposes due to their improved   
     qualitative and quantitative credit factors, which resulted in an   
     increase of accrued rent in the amount of $5,573. Excluding such, FFO per   
     common share would have been $0.80 and $3.21 and Core FFO would have been   
     $0.82 and $3.23 for the quarter and year ended December 31, 2023,   
     respectively.   
   
   
                          NNN REIT, Inc.   
           (dollars in thousands, except per share data)   
                            (unaudited)   
   
                        Quarter Ended          Year Ended   
                        December 31,          December 31,   
                       2024       2023      2024       2023   
                     ---------  --------  ---------  ---------   
Adjusted Funds   
From Operations   
("AFFO")   
Reconciliation:   
------------------   
 Net earnings        $  97,894  $ 96,682  $ 396,835  $ 392,340   
 Total FFO   
  adjustments           54,795    55,030    213,666    196,734   
 Total Core FFO   
  adjustments               42     2,569        668      3,454   
                      --------   -------   --------   --------   
 Core FFO              152,731   154,281    611,169    592,528   
   
 Straight-line   
  accrued rent, net   
  of reserves            (302)   (5,957)      (294)    (7,453)   
 Net capital lease   
  rent adjustment           58        75        222        319   
 Below-market rent   
  amortization           (144)      (82)      (495)      (431)   
 Stock based   
  compensation   
  expense                2,775     2,592     11,816     10,846   
 Capitalized   
  interest expense     (1,061)   (1,912)    (5,805)    (4,286)   
                      --------   -------   --------   --------   
   Total AFFO   
    adjustments          1,326   (5,284)      5,444    (1,005)   
                      --------   -------   --------   --------   
AFFO                 $ 154,057  $148,997  $ 616,613  $ 591,523   
                      ========   =======   ========   ========   
   
AFFO per share:   
 Basic               $    0.83  $   0.82  $    3.36  $    3.26   
                      ========   =======   ========   ========   
 Diluted             $    0.82  $   0.82  $    3.35  $    3.26   
                      ========   =======   ========   ========   
   
Other Information:   
------------------   
 Rental income from   
  operating   
  leases(1)          $ 212,565  $209,037  $ 846,653  $ 805,136   
                      ========   =======   ========   ========   
 Earned income from   
  direct financing   
  leases(1)          $     115  $    133  $     468  $     560   
                      ========   =======   ========   ========   
 Percentage rent(1)  $     189  $    241  $   1,536  $   1,631   
                      ========   =======   ========   ========   
   
 Real estate   
  expenses   
  reimbursed from   
  tenants(1)         $   5,479  $  5,767  $  18,811  $  18,763   
 Real estate   
  expenses            (11,142)   (8,237)   (32,317)   (28,378)   
                      --------   -------   --------   --------   
 Real estate   
  expenses, net of   
  tenant   
  reimbursements     $ (5,663)  $(2,470)  $(13,506)  $ (9,615)   
                      ========   =======   ========   ========   
   
 Amortization of   
  debt costs         $   1,455  $  1,295  $   5,993  $   4,943   
                      ========   =======   ========   ========   
 Scheduled debt   
  principal   
  amortization   
  (excluding   
       maturities)   $      --  $     --  $      --  $     173  (2)   
                      ========   =======   ========   ========   
 Non-real estate   
  depreciation   
  expense            $      43  $    105  $     370  $     409   
                      ========   =======   ========   ========   
   
   
   
(1)  For the quarters ended December 31, 2024 and 2023, the aggregate of such   
     amounts is $218,348 and $215,178, respectively, and $867,468 and   
     $826,090, for the year ended December 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively,   
     and is classified as rental income on the income statement summary.   
(2)  In April 2023, NNN repaid the remaining mortgages payable principal   
     balance of $9,774.   
 
```

NNN REIT, Inc.

2025 Earnings Guidance:

Guidance is based on current plans and assumptions and subject to risks and uncertainties more fully described in this press release and the company's reports filed with the Commission.

```
   
                                                            2025 Guidance   
                                                       -----------------------   
Net earnings per share excluding any gains on          $1.97 - $2.02 per share   
disposition of real      estate, impairment   
charges, and executive retirement costs   
Real estate depreciation and amortization per share        $1.36 per share   
Core FFO per share                                     $3.33 - $3.38 per share   
AFFO per share                                         $3.39 - $3.44 per share   
General and administrative expenses                       $47 - $48 Million   
Real estate expenses, net of tenant reimbursements        $15 - $16 Million   
Acquisition volume                                       $500 - $600 Million   
Disposition volume                                       $80 - $120 Million   
   
   
                          NNN REIT, Inc.   
                       Balance Sheet Summary   
                      (dollars in thousands)   
                            (unaudited)   
   
                                        December 31,  December 31,   
                                            2024          2023   
                                        ------------  ------------   
Assets:   
 Real estate portfolio, net of   
  accumulated depreciation and   
  amortization                          $  8,746,168  $  8,535,851   
 Cash and cash equivalents                     8,731         1,189   
 Restricted cash and cash held in   
  escrow                                         331         3,966   
 Receivables, net of allowance of $617   
  and $669, respectively                       2,975         3,649   
 Accrued rental income, net of   
  allowance of $4,156 and $4,168,   
  respectively                                34,005        34,611   
 Debt costs, net of accumulated   
  amortization of $27,002 and $23,952,   
  respectively                                 8,958         3,243   
 Other assets                                 71,560        79,459   
                                         -----------   -----------   
   Total assets                         $  8,872,728  $  8,661,968   
                                         ===========   ===========   
   
Liabilities:   
 Line of credit payable                 $         --  $    132,000   
 Notes payable, net of unamortized   
  discount and unamortized debt costs      4,373,803     4,228,544   
 Accrued interest payable                     29,699        34,374   
 Other liabilities                           106,951       109,593   
                                         -----------   -----------   
   Total liabilities                       4,510,453     4,504,511   
                                         -----------   -----------   
   
Total equity                               4,362,275     4,157,457   
   
Total liabilities and equity            $  8,872,728  $  8,661,968   
                                         ===========   ===========   
   
Common shares outstanding                187,540,929   182,474,770   
                                         ===========   ===========   
   
Gross leasable area, Property   
 Portfolio (square feet)                  36,557,000    35,966,000   
                                         ===========   ===========   
   
   
                                 NNN REIT, Inc.   
                                  Debt Summary   
                             As of December 31, 2024   
                             (dollars in thousands)   
                                   (unaudited)   
   
                          Principal,   
                            Net of   
Unsecured                 Unamortized  Stated       Effective        Maturity   
Debt          Principal    Discount      Rate          Rate             Date   
-----------   ----------  -----------  -------      ---------      -------------   
Line of   
credit                                 SOFR +   
payable       $       --  $        --  87.5bps             --      April 2028   
   
Unsecured   
notes   
payable:   
 2025            400,000      399,900    4.000%         4.029%     November 2025   
 2026            350,000      349,128    3.600%         3.733%     December 2026   
 2027            400,000      399,490    3.500%         3.548%     October 2027   
 2028            400,000      398,778    4.300%         4.388%     October 2028   
 2030            400,000      399,286    2.500%         2.536%     April 2030   
 2033            500,000      489,579    5.600%         5.905%     October 2033   
 2034            500,000      494,112    5.500%         5.662%     June 2034   
 2048            300,000      296,219    4.800%         4.890%     October 2048   
 2050            300,000      294,561    3.100%         3.205%     April 2050   
 2051            450,000      442,228    3.500%         3.602%     April 2051   
 2052            450,000      440,282    3.000%         3.118%     April 2052   
               ---------   ----------   
Total          4,450,000    4,403,563   
               ---------   ----------   
   
Total   
 unsecured   
 debt(1)      $4,450,000  $ 4,403,563   
               =========   ==========   
   
Debt costs                $  (43,820)   
Accumulated amortization       14,060   
                           ----------   
Debt costs, net of   
 accumulated   
 amortization                (29,760)   
                           ----------   
Notes payable, net of   
 unamortized discount   
 and    unamortized debt   
 costs                    $ 4,373,803   
                           ==========   
   
   
   
(1)  Unsecured debt has a weighted average interest rate of 4.1% and a   
     weighted average maturity of 12.1 years.   
 
```

NNN REIT, Inc.

Debt Summary - Continued

As of December 31, 2024

(unaudited)

Credit Facility and Notes Covenants

The following is a summary of key financial covenants for the company's unsecured credit facility and notes, as defined and calculated per the terms of the facility's credit agreement and the notes' governing documents, respectively, which are included in the company's filings with the Commission. These calculations, which are not based on U.S. GAAP measurements, are presented to investors to show that as of December 31, 2024, the company believes it is in compliance with the covenants.

```
   
Key Covenants                                Required    December 31, 2024   
------------------------------------------   ---------   -----------------   
Unsecured Bank Credit Facility:   
 Maximum leverage ratio                         < 0.60          0.37   
 Minimum fixed charge coverage ratio            > 1.50          4.28   
 Maximum secured indebtedness ratio           < 0.40            --   
 Unencumbered asset value ratio                 > 1.67          2.70   
 Unencumbered interest ratio                    > 1.75          4.23   
Unsecured Notes:   
 Limitation on incurrence of total debt         <= 60%         40.0 %   
 Limitation on incurrence of secured debt     <= 40%            --   
 Debt service coverage ratio                   >= 1.50           4.2   
 Maintenance of total unencumbered assets      >= 150%          250 %   
   
   
                                NNN REIT, Inc.   
                              Property Portfolio   
                            As of December 31, 2024   
   
Top 20 Lines of Trade   
------------------------------------------------------------------------------   
   
                                                          As of December 31,   
       Lines of Trade                                    2024(1)      2023(2)   
       ---------------------------------------------    ---------    ---------   
 1.    Convenience stores                                17.0 %       16.4 %   
 2.    Automotive service                                16.9 %       15.6 %   
 3.    Restaurants -- limited service                     8.4 %        8.5 %   
 4.    Restaurants -- full service                        7.8 %        8.7 %   
 5.    Family entertainment centers                       7.2 %        6.4 %   
       Recreational vehicle dealers, parts and   
 6.    accessories                                        5.1 %        4.6 %   
 7.    Theaters                                           4.0 %        4.1 %   
 8.    Health and fitness                                 3.9 %        4.5 %   
 9.    Equipment rental                                   3.2 %        3.0 %   
10.    Wholesale clubs                                    2.4 %        2.5 %   
11.    Automotive parts                                   2.4 %        2.5 %   
12.    Drug stores                                        2.2 %        2.4 %   
13.    Home improvement                                   2.1 %        2.2 %   
14.    Medical service providers                          1.7 %        1.7 %   
15.    General merchandise                                1.4 %        1.4 %   
16.    Furniture                                          1.3 %        2.0 %   
17.    Pet supplies and services                          1.3 %        1.1 %   
18.    Consumer electronics                               1.3 %        1.4 %   
19.    Travel plazas                                      1.2 %        1.3 %   
20.    Home furnishings                                   1.1 %        1.3 %   
       Other                                              8.1 %        8.4 %   
                                                        ---------    ---------   
       Total                                             100.0 %      100.0 %   
                                                        =========    =========   
   
   
Top 10 States   
-------------------------------------------------------------------------   
   
       State      % of Total(1)               State         % of Total(1)   
      --------    -------------           --------------    -------------   
1.    Texas          18.8 %         6.    Tennessee             3.8 %   
2.    Florida         8.7 %         7.    North Carolina        3.7 %   
3.    Illinois        5.1 %         8.    Indiana               3.6 %   
4.    Georgia         4.5 %         9.    Arizona               3.2 %   
5.    Ohio            4.2 %        10.    Virginia              3.2 %   
   
   
As a percentage of annual base rent, which is the annualized base rent for all   
leases in place.   
   
     (1)  $860,562,000 as of December 31, 2024.   
     (2)  $818,749,000 as of December 31, 2023.   
   
   
                                NNN REIT, Inc.   
                        Property Portfolio - Continued   
                            As of December 31, 2024   
   
Top 20 Tenants   
------------------------------------------------------------------------------   
   
                                                         # of          % of   
       Tenant                                          Properties     Total(1)   
       -------------------------------------------    -----------    ---------   
 1.    7-Eleven                                           146          4.5 %   
 2.    Mister Car Wash                                    121          4.1 %   
 3.    Dave & Buster's                                    34           3.8 %   
 4.    Camping World                                      48           3.8 %   
 5.    GPM Investments (convenience stores)               148          2.8 %   
 6.    Flynn Restaurant Group (Taco Bell/Arby's)          204          2.7 %   
 7.    AMC Theatres                                       20           2.6 %   
 8.    LA Fitness                                         26           2.5 %   
 9.    BJ's Wholesale Club                                13           2.4 %   
10.    Mavis Tire Express Services                        140          2.2 %   
11.    Couche Tard (Pantry)                               91           2.2 %   
12.    Kent Distributors (convenience stores)             38           2.1 %   
13.    Chuck E. Cheese                                    53           1.8 %   
14.    Walgreens                                          49           1.8 %   
15.    Sunoco                                             53           1.8 %   
16.    Casey's General Stores (convenience stores)        62           1.7 %   
17.    United Rentals                                     49           1.6 %   
18.    Tidal Wave Auto Spa                                35           1.3 %   
19.    Super Star Car Wash                                33           1.3 %   
20.    Lifetime Fitness                                    3           1.3 %   
   
   
Lease Expirations(2)   
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------   
   
                                Gross   
          % of       # of     Leasable                 % of       # of     Gross Leasable   
        Total(1)  Properties  Area (3)               Total(1)  Properties     Area (3)   
        --------  ----------  ---------              --------  ----------  --------------   
  2025     3.2 %     132        874,000        2031     7.0 %     184           2,655,000   
  2026     4.2 %     204      1,981,000        2032     5.1 %     183           1,804,000   
  2027     7.6 %     231      3,401,000        2033     4.6 %     134           1,398,000   
  2028     5.8 %     255      2,306,000        2034     5.8 %     182           2,398,000   
  2029     4.6 %     143      2,083,000  Thereafter    47.7 %    1,711         14,840,000   
  2030     4.4 %     154      2,086,000   
   
   
   
(1)  Based on the annual base rent of $860,562,000, which is the annualized   
     base rent for all leases in place as of December 31, 2024.   
(2)  As of December 31, 2024, the weighted average remaining lease term is 9.9   
     years.   
(3)  Square feet.   
 
```

View original content to download multimedia:https://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/2024-annual-results-and-2025-guidance-announced-by-nnn-reit-inc-302372793.html

SOURCE NNN REIT, Inc.

/CONTACT: For information contact: Kevin B. Habicht, Chief Financial Officer, (407) 265-7348

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250211005169:0/)
