---
title: "Southern Copper Files 8K - Operations And Financial Condition >SCCO"
date: "2025-02-12 21:46:00"
summary: "Southern Copper Corp. (SCCO) filed a Form 8K - Operations and Financial Condition - with the U.S Securities and Exchange Commission on February 12, 2025.On February 11, 2025, Southern Copper Corporation (\"SCC\") issued a press release announcing financial results for the fourth quarter and full year ended on December 31,..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Southern Copper Corp. (SCCO) filed a Form 8K - Operations and Financial Condition - with the U.S Securities and Exchange Commission on February 12, 2025.

On February 11, 2025, Southern Copper Corporation ("SCC") issued a press release announcing financial results for the fourth quarter and full year ended on December 31, 2024. In this press release, SCC reported that on January 23, 2025, the Board of Directors authorized a quarterly cash dividend of $0.70 per share of common stock and a stock dividend of 0.0073 shares of common stock per share of common stock payable on February 27, 2025, to shareholders of record at the close of business on February 11, 2025. In lieu of fractional shares, cash will be distributed to each shareholder who would otherwise have been entitled to receive a fractional share, based on a share price of $95.86, which is the average of the high and low share price on January 23, 2025. A copy of this press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.

The information in this report and the exhibit attached hereto are being furnished and shall not be deemed as "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Act of 1934. Accordingly, this information will not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed by Southern Copper Corporation pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933 or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, except as expressly stated in such filing.

The full text of this SEC filing can be retrieved at: https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1001838/000155837025000826/scco-20250211x8k.htm

Any exhibits and associated documents for this SEC filing can be retrieved at: https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1001838/000155837025000826/0001558370-25-000826-index.htm

Public companies must file a Form 8-K, or current report, with the SEC generally within four days of any event that could materially affect a company's financial position or the value of its shares.

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250212008113:0/)
