---
title: "Powell Says Payments System is Safe — Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-11 23:44:00"
summary: "1043 ET - In senate testimony Fed Chair Jerome Powell outlines the federal payments system that has been the center of controversy amid Trump administration efforts to scrutinize its operations. Powell explains that the role of the Treasury is to establish which payments should be made when and to confirm..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

1043 ET - In senate testimony Fed Chair Jerome Powell outlines the federal payments system that has been the center of controversy amid Trump administration efforts to scrutinize its operations. Powell explains that the role of the Treasury is to establish which payments should be made when and to confirm that federal payments comply with agency needs and all legal requirements. As fiscal agent, the Fed has a role in executing federal payments. Asked if he believes the system remains safe today, Powell says that he believes it is. (matt.grossman@wsj.com, @mattgrossman)

1036 ET - Potential new regulations following Germany's federal election are only a limited risk to the country's real-estate sector, UBS analysts Charles Boissier and Zachary Gauge say in a research note. Housing policies stand prominently in the manifestos of the different parties, unsurprisingly given the acute undersupply of affordable homes, UBS says. Also, the key focus on housing has moved from regulating further to encouraging newbuilds, the analysts say. "We are reminded by local market participants that the measures proposed two years ago were as, if not more significant," UBS says. (nina.kienle@wsj.com)

1031 ET - Responding to a question from Republican Senator Tim Scott, Fed Chair Jerome Powell says that he will work with Congress and with colleagues at the Fed to examine ways to address debanking. "I'm happy to make that commitment," Powell says. The question was preceded by remarks from Scott about complaints that the Fed has treated financial institutions involved in cryptocurrency unfairly. (matt.grossman@wsj.com; @mattgrossman)

0959 ET - The euro looks set to remain within a relatively tight range against the Canadian dollar as both currencies could come under pressure from President Trump's trade policies, Societe Generale analyst Olivier Korber says in a note. "With global and FX markets focusing strongly on U.S. protectionism, the Canadian dollar and the euro are among the most impacted currencies," he says. Trump has targeted trade with Canada from the outset and plans to impose tariffs on eurozone steel and aluminum imports. That should weigh on both currencies in coming months. SocGen recommends buying a six-month double-no-touch option in EUR/CAD that bets on a range between 1.4450 and 1.5250. EUR/CAD is last at 1.4793, up 0.3% on the day. (renae.dyer@wsj.com)

0945 ET - Bank of Nova Scotia's economics team says it now anticipates one more rate cut from the Bank of Canada, to account for uncertainty created by trade policy from President Trump. Chief economist Jean-Francois Perrault says Scotiabank now anticipates weaker growth for Canada in 2025, despite a strong end to last year and strong start in January. This reflects "a more pronounced increase in uncertainty, in line with volatility we witnessed in recent weeks that is likely to persist for some time," he says in an updated forecast. One more quarter-point cut, to 2.75%, would bring rates to the midpoint of the BOC's estimated range for neutral--or the level that neither stimulates nor contracts from growth. (paul.vieira@wsj.com, @paulvieira)

0924 ET - Inflation cooled down slightly in Brazil last month, but not enough to relief pressure on the central bank. Brazil's 12-month IPCA consumer price index was 4.6% in January, compared to 4.8% in December, the country's statistics agency IBGE says. The central bank's target is 3%, with a tolerance range of 1.5 percentage point. "The inflationary pressures remain strong, particularly among services, and goods inflation is normalizing upwards from low-levels," Goldman Sachs' Alberto Ramos writes. The central bank will need to remain hawkish, he says. The central bank's policy rate is at 13.25% and widely expected to keep rising. (paulo.trevisani@wsj.com; @ptrevisani)

0920 ET - Business groups in Canada point to conflicting data on the back of Ottawa's two-month sales tax holiday, which comes to an end mid-month. The not-for-profit Restaurants Canada estimates employment in the foodservice sector rose in January to the highest level since the start of the pandemic. The industry added 34,600 new jobs since November, reaching 1.18 million jobs and representing one in six new jobs created in Canada as the tax break offered support to households during an ongoing affordability crisis, Restaurants Canada CEO Kelly Higginson says. Still, the Canadian Federation of Independent Business says only 5% of small businesses saw stronger sales compared with the same period last year. Of that it says 4% of businesses in retail and 15% in hospitality saw sales rise. (robb.stewart@wsj.com; @RobbMStewart)

0917 ET - The Swedish krona and Norwegian krone could extend recent gains on growing optimism about a potential ceasefire deal for the Russia-Ukraine conflict, ING analyst Chris Turner says in a note. "Expectations are that the U.S. will reveal more of its plans at a Munich security conference this weekend, although any breakthrough with Russia would be a major surprise and is not priced in FX markets," he says. In the near-term, EUR/SEK could fall to 11.15 and EUR/NOK could fall below 11.50, with the NOK also supported by a rise in energy prices. EUR/SEK falls 0.2% to a four-and-a-half-month low of 11.2388, according to FactSet. EUR/NOK rises 0.2% to 11.5827 after reaching a two-and-a-half-month low of 11.5337 on Monday. (renae.dyer@wsj.com)

0904 ET - U.S. high-yield default rates rose in January, particularly in the media, healthcare and telecommunications sectors, CreditSights analysts say in a note. The issuer-weighted default rate climbed 11 basis points in January, leaving the percentage of U.S. high-yield issuers that have defaulted over the past 12 months at 3.2% the analysts say. The debt-weighted default rate rose 8 basis points to 2.6%. The U.S. media sector had the highest issuer-weighted default rate in January at 10%, healthcare sector was second at 7%, with telecommunications in third place at 6.5%, the analysts say. (miriam.mukuru@wsj.com)

0850 ET - Treasury yields rise ahead of Powell's semiannual Senate testimony and as Trump's tariffs on steel and aluminum, both to take effect next month, add momentum to a global trade war. Powell is expected to face questions about how tariffs and other policies could drive Fed moves. The E.U. promises to retaliate against U.S. tariffs. January CPI is due tomorrow and expected to remain above target. The 10-year yield is at 4.533%, on path for a fourth consecutive daily gain, and the two-year is at 4.290%. (paulo.trevisani@wsj.com; @ptrevisani)

0848 ET - The associated uncertainty of U.S. trade policy under President Trump will have real-world consequences, and nowhere more true than at the Federal Reserve, Capital Economics chief economist Neil Shearing says. The Fed could be facing either a once-in-a-century tariff price shock, or a lot of sound and fury that ultimately signify something far less, he says in a note. Still, the uncertainty is likely enough to keep Fed officials on the sidelines over the coming months. If high tariffs are ultimately imposed then the subsequent rise in inflation will prevent further easing over the remainder of 2025, he says. "Much will depend on the whim of one man." (edward.frankl@wsj.com)

0831 ET - The cost of insuring euro credit against default using credit default swaps is little changed as investors trade cautiously ahead of the U.S. Federal Reserve Chair Jerome Powell's presentation before the U.S. Senate at 1500 GMT. "It will be interesting to hear how Powell frames the fact that the Fed is in a tricky position, since the impact of the new President's policies is as yet unknown, which makes policy paralysis more likely in the coming months," XTB's Kathleen Brooks says in a note. The iTraxx Europe Main index which tracks euro investment-grade bonds credit default swaps is unchanged at 53 basis points, S&P Global Market Intelligence data show. (miriam.mukuru@wsj.com)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250211007049:0/)
