---
title: "Market Talk Roundup: Latest on U.S. Politics"
date: "2025-02-11 18:46:00"
summary: "The latest Market Talks covering U.S. politics. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.0546 ET - The euro could fall to parity against the dollar by mid-year as President Trump's tariff plans will hurt the eurozone economy, Rabobank forex strategist Jane Foley says in a note. The EU..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The latest Market Talks covering U.S. politics. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.

0546 ET - The euro could fall to parity against the dollar by mid-year as President Trump's tariff plans will hurt the eurozone economy, Rabobank forex strategist Jane Foley says in a note. The EU said Tuesday it would retaliate against new U.S. tariffs on European steel and aluminium exports. Meanwhile, the WSJ reports that senior Trump administration officials are heading across the Atlantic to tackle points of tension. Europe is vulnerable to tariffs as it has a far more open economy than the U.S., Foley says. "While retaliatory tariffs could raise prices in the EU, the eurozone economy is currently weaker than that of the U.S." The euro is last up 0.1% at $1.0318. (renae.dyer@wsj.com)

0535 ET - U.S. President Trump's trade turmoil could push OPEC and its allies to extend existing production cuts once again, according to Morgan Stanley. Tariffs and counter tariffs have the potential to hit oil-intensive sectors of the economy the hardest, hurting global growth and demand for crude. "Adding supply into a period of rising trade tensions is not a compelling prospect, and we suspect that OPEC+ will avoid this," analysts at the U.S. bank say. MS says lower OPEC+ output would lead to a balanced market in the second quarter, despite modest inventory builds in the coming months. The bank trimmed its first-quarter forecasts for Brent crude to $75 a barrel from $77.5 a barrel previously. The international oil benchmark is seen at $75 a barrel in the second quarter and at $72.5 a barrel in the second half of the year. (giulia.petroni@wsj.com)

0522 ET - The European Union has room for fiscal and monetary manoeuvre, allowing it to bear the brunt of U.S. import tariffs, BNP Paribas' Isabelle Mateos y Lago writes in a note to investors. President Trump has threatened high tariffs on EU goods, provoking vows of retaliation from the continent's political leaders. Some observers warn that a trade battle could exacerbate the growth gap between the U.S. and the EU, but Europe could prove robust. Relatively low eurozone inflation offers the European Central Bank scope to cut interest rates further, in contrast to the situation faced by the Federal Reserve. Some EU governments enjoy flexibility in fiscal policy that could cushion any blow from tariffs, Mateo y Lago says. (joshua.kirby@wsj.com; @joshualeokirby)

0432 ET - Base metal prices fall, with LME three-month copper down 0.9% at $9,367 a metric ton and LME three-month aluminum down 0.4% at $2,649.50 a ton. Metal prices slip after gaining in Monday's session, with copper and aluminum both up on-week. President Trump proposed over the weekend to raise U.S. aluminum import tariffs to 25% from 10% and remove all exemptions, Goldman Sachs analysts say in a note. Assuming no exemptions, aluminum and steel tariffs will largely be passed through to U.S. prices only, Goldman writes. Goldman expects the U.S. Midwest aluminum premium to more than double to 50 cents a pound. Separately, markets are pricing in over a 90% probability of a 10% copper import duty by March, though Goldman Sachs retains a baseline estimate of a 70% chance of a 10% tariff by the end of 2025. (joseph.hoppe@wsj.com)

0418 ET - Gold futures rise after setting a fresh record earlier in the session. Futures are up 0.1% at $2,937.10 a troy ounce, having risen as high as $2,069 in Asian overnight trading. Gold and the U.S. dollar both extended gains, fuelled by fresh tariff threats from President Trump, Swissquote Bank's Ipek Ozkardeskaya says in a note. Trump said on the weekend that he will implement 25% tariffs on steel and aluminum, driving up safe-haven demand for assets like gold. China, Turkey, India and Eastern European nations among others are continuing to buy gold to build their reserves of assets that don't carry Trump or U.S. risks, Ozkardeskaya says. While the tight trade and geopolitical environment could get tenser and uglier very quickly, gold remains the ultimate Trump hedge, and makes $3,000 an ounce easily achievable, she adds. (joseph.hoppe@wsj.com)

0408 ET - Oil prices extend gains from the previous trading session despite fears that President Trump's trade tariffs might hurt global growth. Brent crude and WTI are both up 1% to $76.67 and $73.07 a barrel, respectively, boosted by signs of tighter supplies and rising geopolitical tensions. According to a Bloomberg report, Russian oil production slipped further below the country's OPEC+ quota in January, easing concerns over an oversupplied market even if the Kremlin still has to make up for past overproduction. Meanwhile, Russia and Ukraine continue to exchange attacks targeting energy infrastructure. Traders now await Fed Chair Jerome Powell's testimony before Congress for cues on future rate policy, as higher rates could slow oil-demand growth. (giulia.petroni@wsj.com)

0408 ET - The euro could weaken further as U.S.-eurozone interest rate differentials move against the single currency ahead of potential U.S. trade tariffs, ING's Chris Turner says in a note. President Trump's announcement Monday of a 25% tariff on all steel and aluminum imports hit the EU, he says. Europe is now bracing for tariffs on other sectors, like autos, although politicians are likely concerned about broader tariffs. "Whatever today's news on tariffs, wide rate spreads justify the euro continuing to trade near $1.03 and undermine the need for any corrective bounce." The euro rises 0.1% to $1.0315 but could fall towards the $1.0250-60 range or lower if Trump delivers new tariffs, he says. (renae.dyer@wsj.com)

0140 ET - It does seem as if participants have become rather fatigued when it comes to the whole tariff issue, Pepperstone's Michael Brown says in a note. This was the case Monday, following a fresh round of trade measures by U.S. President Trump on steel and aluminum as well as the issue of reciprocal tariffs, the senior research strategist says. The U.S. administration's focus is now apparently on trade itself, as opposed to "simply chucking tariffs around" as a negotiating strategy aimed at furthering the President's political aims, Brown says. That said, tariffs still seem to be front of mind for market participants, he says. (emese.bartha@wsj.com)

2309 ET - President Trump's trade, fiscal and immigration policy agenda is expected to be mildly inflationary, BofA analysts write, forecasting the changes to be reflected in inflation by 2H 2025. Any additional tariffs in the next few weeks could advance the timeline, they note. "A key question is whether policy changes impact long-run inflation expectations," they say, adding that market-based measures remain within the historical range. BofA reiterates its stance that the Fed's cutting cycle is over, with inflation "stuck above target," forecasting both headline and core CPI to have increased by 0.3% on month in January. "If our January CPI forecast is correct, the case for the Fed to stay on hold will strengthen further," they write. U.S. CPI data is due Wednesday. (jihye.lee@wsj.com)

2150 ET - Emerging Asian economies, such as India, Thailand and China face risk of higher reciprocal tariffs by the U.S., Nomura analysts say in a research note. These countries have higher effective tariff rates on the U.S. than those having free trade agreements with the U.S., such as Singapore and South Korea, they say. Nomura expects Asian economies to step up negotiations with Trump. Both India and Thailand are considering increasing imports or reducing tariffs on certain U.S. goods, they note. Whether Trump imposes higher reciprocal tariffs on a sectoral basis or across the board is important, they say. Should Trump take a sectoral approach, then even countries with lower weighted average tariff rates could be subject to higher tariffs in specific sectors, they add. (sherry.qin@wsj.com)

1649 ET - A 25% U.S. tariff on Canadian aluminum "will be so destructive for industrial aluminum value chain in the U.S. that it cannot last," says Jean Simard, CEO of the Aluminium Association of Canada. Simard tells WSJ he's hoping the Trump administration will carve out Canadian-made aluminum from the president's decision to impose a 25% tariff on imported steel and aluminum. Simard says small- and mid-sized U.S. manufacturers will be stuck paying vastly more for the metal which is used to build cars, aerospace products, and consumer appliances. "At some point in time, some products will be priced out of the market and replaced by foreign imports," Simard predicts. Canada supplies about 60% of the aluminum the U.S. imports. (paul.vieira@wsj.com; @paulvieira)

1456 ET - Tariffs could impact consumer prices faster than they did in the past, WisdomTree's Sam Rines says. "If you had asked me 10 years ago how quickly the pass-through would happen, I would have said...18 to 24 months." But after passing on to consumers increased costs caused by tariffs from Trump's first term, the war in Ukraine and other recent shocks, companies should now be able to adjust prices in three to nine months, Rines says. They "have an excuse to raise prices, they've done it before...they'll do it again and they'll likely be successful simply because the consumer knows there's not really another option." (paulo.trevisani@wsj.com; @ptrevisani)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250211002556:0/)
