---
title: "News Highlights: Top Company News of the Day - Monday at 5 PM ET"
date: "2025-02-11 06:15:00"
summary: "Elon Musk-Led Group Makes $97.4 Billion Bid for Control of OpenAIThe unsolicited offer complicates Sam Altman's plans to convert OpenAI to a for-profit company.American Express Stock Slips as CFO Says Wall Street Is Too UpbeatThe company's chief financial officer said growth in the first quarter would be slower than the..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

**Elon Musk-Led Group Makes $97.4 Billion Bid for Control of OpenAI**

The unsolicited offer complicates Sam Altman's plans to convert OpenAI to a for-profit company.

**American Express Stock Slips as CFO Says Wall Street Is Too Upbeat**

The company's chief financial officer said growth in the first quarter would be slower than the fourth.

**Super Bowl Ad Results: AI Can't Compete With Sentimental Stories**

Americana and famous faces won the game inside the game, with a solid showing for pharma brands looking to polish their reputations.

**Tesla Is Losing Ground Against Its Biggest Rival in China**

BYD makes advances in AI-powered driving software while Musk's wait for approval grows.

**Intel's AI Chief to Leave Chip Maker in Wake of CEO Exit**

Justin Hotard will take the top job at European telecom-gear maker Nokia.

**McDonald's U.S. Sales Drop as Customers Spend Less**

The fast-food chain had an uneven 2024, as it faced concerns about whether consumers were cutting visits because meal prices were too high.

**TD Bank to Sell Investment in Charles Schwab**

Toronto-Dominion Bank will exit its investment in Charles Schwab, the Canadian bank's first big move under new CEO Raymond Chun to shore up its business following a costly money-laundering scandal.

**Mediobanca Lifts Shareholder Return Target**

The upgrade comes after Mediobanca CEO Alberto Nagel highlighted faster growth at the bank and as the country's banking sector is in the midst of an M&A spree.

**Hyatt Agrees to Buy Playa Hotels for $2.6 Billion**

Hyatt Hotels has agreed to acquire Playa Hotels & Resorts for roughly $2.6 billion, including $900 million in debt.

**Elliott Takes Stake in Struggling Oil Giant BP**

The activist hedge fund is encouraging BP to consider more dramatic moves to restore the once venerable company's fortunes.

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250210011650:0-news-highlights-top-company-news-of-the-day-monday-at-5-pm-et/)
