---
title: "Global Equities Roundup: Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-12 00:23:00"
summary: "The latest Market Talks covering Equities. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.1123 ET - Seven of Redfin.com's 10 most-viewed home listings in January were in the Bay Area, particularly the East Bay and near San Jose, with two in Seattle's eastside suburbs. One popular listing was in..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The latest Market Talks covering Equities. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.

1123 ET - Seven of Redfin.com's 10 most-viewed home listings in January were in the Bay Area, particularly the East Bay and near San Jose, with two in Seattle's eastside suburbs. One popular listing was in Pacific Palisades, Los Angeles, amid recent wildfires. Nine listings exceed $1 million, five surpass $2 million, far above the U.S. median home price of $430,000. High interest in Silicon Valley and Seattle stems from limited desirable homes, despite improving inventory, and tech workers returning to offices. Amazon's mandate impacted 12,000 Bellevue workers, while Bay Area listings near Tesla and Meta offices also drew attention. These regions, among the most populous and highest-income U.S. metro areas, naturally attract significant viewership. (chris.wack@wsj.com)

1120 ET - Carrier Global is positioning itself for a boom in data centers. The air-conditioning and building-automation company earlier this month introduced a suite of energy-efficient solutions, which executives on an earnings call Tuesday described as a one-stop shop for a data center's cooling needs. Carrier said it's looking at $1 billion in data center sales this year, which would approximately double from last year. Executives added that they see an opportunity for outsized growth in data centers in 2025 and beyond. Shares fall 1.5% to $65.26 as 4Q revenue growth came in below Wall Street's estimates. (denny.jacob@wsj.com; @pennedbyden)

1117 ET - Travelers from Mexico and Canada have been cancelling reservations and pulling back on travel plans in light of heightened geopolitical tensions and looming tariffs, but it is too soon to tell whether this downturn will hurt Marriott International's future results, CFO Leeny Oberg says on a call with analysts. She's not too worried, though, as the majority of the U.S. and Canadian market is driven by domestic travels. "We'll see over time, but certainly too early to say and overwhelmingly a very small part of our business in the U.S.," she says. Marriott shares fall 4.7% after its 2025 outlook misses estimates. (connor.hart@wsj.com)

1110 ET - Ford could face layoffs if Trump gets rid of certain legislation that Biden passed to support electric vehicle production. CEO Jim Farley said he is concerned about Trump repealing parts of the Inflation Reduction Act, which incentivized various green-energy efforts including electric vehicle production. Ford has already sunk capital into initiatives that would benefit from the IRA, and expects it would have to cut jobs at plants across the country if large parts of the IRA is repealed. Farley said he is visiting D.C. on Wednesday for the second time in three weeks to try to highlight how much policy uncertainty is weighing on the auto industry. (katherine.hamilton@wsj.com)

1108 ET - Tariffs are bringing "cost and chaos" to Ford in the immediate term, Chief Executive Jim Farley said during a call. Tariffs on vehicles and components Ford ships into the U.S. from Mexico and Canada would be devastating. Meanwhile, competitors in South Korea, Japan and Europe, which bring in millions of vehicles into the U.S., would experience significant windfall from not being subject to tariffs, Farley said. Ford gets about 90% of its steel domestically and isn't worried about aluminium duties, but tariffs could drive up the market price for those goods. (katherine.hamilton@wsj.com)

1050 ET - Gerresheimer's destocking is expected to mimic trends seen by other pharmaceutical supplier peers, UBS analysts say in a research note. The analysts have trimmed their primary packaging glass forecasts. This is because they expect that vials destocking should abate by mid 2025 at the latest, they say. The German packaging company's shares trade broadly flat at 80.45 euros. (nina.kienle@wsj.com)

0946 ET - Forecasts for cold weather over the next 10 days, including a winter storm into the Midwest and Northeast, are giving natural gas futures an additional lift. "Possible well freeze-offs in the Appalachian northeast are keeping the bullish trend alive," BOK Financial's Dennis Kissler says. "Much colder temperatures this winter versus a year ago and rising LNG demand is making a statement." Kissler also notes European gas prices at 2-year highs given faster-than-expected depletion of storage. The Nymex front month is up 2.9% at $3.543/mmBtu. (anthony.harrup@wsj.com)

0939 ET - Coca-Cola CEO James Quincey says on a call with analysts that he's "focusing on innovation that prioritizes bigger and bolder bets," all of which serve specific purposes. This strategy led to a collaboration between Coca-Cola and Oreo, the objective of which was to create short-term buzz and resulted in limited-time drink and cookie offerings, he says. "In other instances, we innovate for lasting impact," Quincey adds. This was the case in expanding the company's portfolio of teas, sparkling waters and juices, which Quincey says are driving revenue growth. Shares rise 4% in early trading. (connor.hart@wsj.com)

0936 ET - Shopify says that its balance of expenses versus margin levels looks to find the right mix between profitability and growth of the business. CFO Jeff Hoffmeister says on the analyst call that the ecommerce platform aims to maintain a balance to see the right level of investment in 2025, similar to how it approached 2024, which included a strong marketing budget as well as sales pushes. "We want to maintain profitability, but invest in the future," because there are "too many compelling growth opportunities." (adriano.marchese@wsj.com)

0917 ET - Consumers are still buying beverages, even if they have to pay more. Coca-Cola in 4Q notched a 9% increase in price/mix--a metric that includes prices as well as product mix, packaging and size. The majority of the increase came from higher prices, CFO John Murphy says on a call with analysts, "split somewhat evenly between normal pricing actions across our markets and intense inflationary pricing in a handful of markets experiencing currency devaluations." Favorable mix accounted for 1% of the 9% increase, he adds. Shares gain 4.2% in premarket trading after Coca-Cola posts higher-than-expected revenue and profit in the recent quarter. (connor.hart@wsj.com)

0914 ET - Shopify is taking in new big players in the retail space while expanding services with existing customers. In his prepared statements, CEO Tobias Lutke says Shopify has signed big brands, such as Karl Lagerfeld, with 70 point of sale locations. FC Barcelona, another big coup in 4Q, with a 330 million fan base, is now using Shopify's POS system, not just online commerce services. Meanwhile, existing clients such as Everlane have taken on expanded services after being onboarded with basic services. Other notables, Lutke says, were shoe companies Aldo, Sperry with each deciding "to go all in with us." (adriano.marchese@wsj.com)

0912 ET — Shopify says AI is becoming a bigger part of its offering, and plans to pour more money into the service. In his prepared remarks, President Tobias Lutke says Shopify will "deepen investment in SideKick [Shopify's AI-enabled commerce assistant] and other AI capabilities." Lutke says the AI capabilities can serve its smaller merchants as well as its larger clients, which aim to support "streamlined operations and decision-making." In late January, China presented its low-cost AI model DeepSeek, which sent shivers across the rest of the tech space. But Shopify shares got a boost because it was seen as a potential beneficiary of AI models going open source, reducing costs. (adriano.marchese@wsj.com)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250211007352:0/)
