---
title: "CAMTEK ANNOUNCES RECORD RESULTS FOR THE FOURTH QUARTER & FULL YEAR OF 2024"
date: "2025-02-12 20:10:00"
summary: "CAMTEK ANNOUNCES RECORD RESULTS FOR THE FOURTH QUARTER &amp; FULL YEAR OF 2024PR NewswireMIGDAL HAEMEK, Israel, Feb. 12, 2025Q4 revenues of $117 million; Q1 2025 revenue guidance of $118-120 million, up 23% YoYMIGDAL HAEMEK, Israel, Feb. 12, 2025 /PRNewswire/ — Camtek Ltd. , today announced its financial results for the..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

CAMTEK ANNOUNCES RECORD RESULTS FOR THE FOURTH QUARTER & FULL YEAR OF 2024

PR Newswire

MIGDAL HAEMEK, Israel, Feb. 12, 2025

Q4 revenues of $117 million; Q1 2025 revenue guidance of $118-120 million, up 23% YoY

MIGDAL HAEMEK, Israel, Feb. 12, 2025 /PRNewswire/ — Camtek Ltd. , today announced its financial results for the fourth quarter and year ended December 31, 2024.

2024 Fourth Quarter Financial Highlights

* Record revenues of $117.3 million, a 32% YoY increase;
* GAAP operating income of $31.3 million (up 82% YoY) and non-GAAP operating income of $36.3 million (up 42% YoY), representing operating margins of 26.7% and 30.9%, respectively; and
* GAAP net income of $33.0 million (up 59% YoY) and non-GAAP net income of $37.7 million (up 34% YoY); GAAP diluted EPS of $0.67 and non-GAAP diluted EPS of $0.77.

2024 Full-Year Financial Highlights

* Record revenues of $429.2 million, a 36% YoY increase.
* GAAP operating income of $108.1 million (up 65% YoY); non-GAAP operating income of $130.3 million (up 56% YoY), representing operating margins of 25.2% and 30.4%, respectively;
* GAAP net income of $118.5 million (up 51% YoY); non-GAAP net income of $138.6 million (up 45% YoY); GAAP diluted EPS of $2.42 and non-GAAP diluted EPS of $2.83; and
* Operating cash flow of $122.2 million in 2024, which led to a year-end total cash, short-term and long-term deposits and marketable securities balance of $501.2 million.

Forward-Looking Expectations

Management expects continued growth in 2025 with revenues in the first quarter of 2025 in the range of $118-120 million, representing approximately a 23% increase over first quarter of 2024 revenues.

Management Comment

Rafi Amit, Camtek's CEO commented, "2024 was a year of a strong growth in revenue and even higher growth in profit. Looking ahead, Camtek ended 2024 with a record quarter and a strong backlog which indicates continued growth into 2025. As we enter 2025, we are excited to launch the technologically innovative Eagle G5 and Hawk systems that broaden our portfolio, enhance our competitiveness, and enable us to enter new markets."

Continued Mr. Amit, "The growing demand for AI has positioned Camtek as a leader and facilitated our significant growth in 2024. We believe we will continue to capitalize on the increasing need for AI applications, which necessitate considerable investments in high-performance computing (HPC) hardware. We will further benefit as AI becomes integrated into mainstream devices like automobiles, robotics, PCs, and mobile phones."

Fourth Quarter 2024 Financial Results

Revenues for the fourth quarter of 2024 were $117.3 million. This compares to fourth quarter 2023 revenues of $88.7 million, representing a year-over-year growth of 32%.

Gross profit on a GAAP basis in the quarter totaled $58.1 million (49.6% of revenues), an increase of 46% compared to a gross profit of $39.8 million (44.9% of revenues) in the fourth quarter of 2023.

Gross profit on a non-GAAP basis in the quarter totaled $59.3 million (50.6% of revenues), an increase of 36% compared to a gross profit of $43.7 million (49.2% of revenues) in the fourth quarter of 2023.

Operating income on a GAAP basis in the quarter totaled $31.3 million (26.7% of revenues), an increase of 82% compared to an operating income of $17.2 million (19.4% of revenues) in the fourth quarter of 2023.

Operating income on a non-GAAP basis in the quarter totaled $36.3 million (30.9% of revenues), an increase of 42% compared to $25.5 million (28.7% of revenues) in the fourth quarter of 2023.

Net income on a GAAP basis in the quarter totaled $33.0 million, or $0.67 per diluted share, an increase of 59% compared to net income of $20.8 million, or $0.42 per diluted share, in the fourth quarter of 2023.

Net income on a non-GAAP basis in the quarter totaled $37.7 million, or $0.77 per diluted share, an increase of 34% compared to a non-GAAP net income of $28.2 million, or $0.57 per diluted share, in the fourth quarter of 2023.

Full Year 2024 Results Summary

Revenues for 2024 were $429.2 million, a 36% increase compared to the $315.4 million as reported in 2023.

Gross profit on a GAAP basis totaled $209.9 million (48.9% of revenues), a 42% increase compared to $147.6 million (46.8% of revenues) in 2023.

Gross profit on a non-GAAP basis totaled $218.0 million (50.8% of revenues), a 43% increase compared to $152.7 million (48.4% of revenues) in 2023.

Operating income on a GAAP basis totaled $108.1 million (25.2% of revenues), a 65% increase compared to operating income of $65.4 million (20.7% of revenues) in 2023.

Operating income on a non-GAAP basis totaled $130.3 million (30.4% of revenues), a 56% increase compared to $83.3 million (26.4% of revenues) in 2023.

Net income on a GAAP basis totaled $118.5 million, or $2.42 per diluted share. This is an increase of 51% compared to net income of $78.6 million, or $1.61 per diluted share, in 2023.

Net income on a non-GAAP basis totaled $138.6 million, or $2.83 per diluted share. This is an increase of 45% compared to net income of $95.7 million, or $1.96 per diluted share, in 2023.

Cash and cash equivalents, short-term and long-term deposits, and marketable securities, as of December 31, 2024, were $501.2 million compared to $448.6 million as of December 31, 2023, and $488.7 million as of September 30, 2024. During the fourth quarter, the Company generated an operating cash flow of $16.2 million.

Conference Call

Camtek will host a video conference call/webinar today via Zoom, on Wednesday, February 12, 2025, at 09:00 ET (16:00 Israel time). Rafi Amit, CEO, Moshe Eisenberg, CFO, and Ramy Langer, COO will host the call and will be available to answer questions after presenting the results.

To participate in the webinar, please register using the following link, which will provide access to the video call: https://us06web.zoom.us/webinar/register/WN\_9cx6Ew0UQsucYsHDA\_qMow

For those wishing to listen via phone, following registration, the dial in link will be sent. For any problems in registering, please email Camtek's investor relations a few hours in advance of the call.

For those unable to participate, a recording will be available on Camtek's website at http://www.camtek.com within a few hours after the call.

A summary presentation of the quarterly results will also be available on Camtek's website.

ABOUT CAMTEK LTD.

Camtek is a developer and manufacturer of high-end inspection and metrology equipment for the semiconductor industry. Camtek's systems inspect IC and measure IC features on wafers throughout the production process of semiconductor devices, covering the front and mid-end and up to the beginning of assembly (Post Dicing). Camtek's systems inspect wafers for the most demanding semiconductor market segments, including Advanced Interconnect Packaging, Heterogenous Integration, Memory and HBM, CMOS Image Sensors, Compound Semiconductors, MEMS, and RF, serving numerous industry's leading global IDMs, OSATs, and foundries.

With manufacturing facilities in Israel and Germany, and eight offices around the world, Camtek provides state of the art solutions in line with customers' requirements.

This press release is available at http://www.camtek.com

This press release contains statements that may constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such forward-looking statements are based on Camtek's current beliefs, expectations and assumptions about its business and industry, all of which may change. Forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of words including "believe," "anticipate," "should," "intend," "plan," "will," "may," "expect," "estimate," "project," "positioned," "strategy," and similar expressions that are intended to identify forward-looking statements, including statements relating to the compound semiconductors market and our position in this market and the anticipated timing of delivery of the systems. These forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties that may cause the actual results, performance or achievements of Camtek to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Factors that may cause our actual results to differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to the effects of the evolving nature of the war situation in Israel, and the related evolving regional conflicts; the continued demand for HPC, HBM and Chiplet devices resulting from, among other things, the field of AI surging worldwide across companies, industries and nations; our dependency upon the semiconductor industry and the risk that unfavorable economic conditions or low capital expenditures may negatively impact our operating results; risks related to the Company's ability to effectively maneuver global trade issues and changes either in the U.S., Israel, or elsewhere in trade and export regulations, tariffs, and license policies, including formal or informal imposition by countries of new or revised export and/or import and doing-business regulations or sanctions, and further including changes in U.S. trade policies, changes or uncertainty related to the U.S. government entity list and changes in the ability to sell products incorporating U.S originated technology, which can be made without prior notice; the risks relating to the concentration of a significant portion of our business in certain countries in the Asia Pacific Region, particularly China, Taiwan and Korea, some of which might be subject to the trade restrictions referred to above or involved in trade wars with countries which might impose such trade restrictions; changing industry and market trends; and those other factors discussed in our Annual Report on Form 20-F as published on March 21, 2024, as well as other documents that may be subsequently filed by Camtek from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We caution you not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date hereof. Camtek does not assume any obligation to update any forward-looking statements in order to reflect events or circumstances that may arise after the date of this release unless required by law.

While we believe that we have a reasonable basis for each forward-looking statement contained in this press release, we caution you that these statements are based on a combination of facts and factors currently known by us and our projections of the future, about which we cannot be certain. In addition, any forward-looking statements represent Camtek's views only as of the date of this press release and should not be relied upon as representing its views as of any subsequent date. Camtek does not assume any obligation to update any forward-looking statements unless required by law.

This press release provides financial measures that exclude: (i) share based compensation expenses; and (ii) acquisition related expenses and are therefore not calculated in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Management believes that these non-GAAP financial measures provide meaningful supplemental information regarding our performance. The presentation of this non-GAAP financial information is not intended to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the financial information prepared and presented in accordance with GAAP. Management uses both GAAP and non-GAAP measures when evaluating the business internally and therefore felt it is important to make these non-GAAP adjustments available to investors. A reconciliation between the GAAP and non-GAAP results appears in the tables at the end of this press release. The results reported in this press-release are preliminary unaudited results, and investors should be aware of possible discrepancies between these results and the audited results to be reported, due to various factors.

```
   
 CAMTEK LTD. and its subsidiaries   
Consolidated Balance Sheets   
------------------------------------------------------------------   
(In thousands)   
   
                                        December 31,  December 31,   
                                        ------------  ------------   
                                            2024          2023   
                                        ------------  ------------   
                                               U.S. Dollars   
                                        --------------------------   
Assets   
--------------------------------------   
   
Current assets   
Cash and cash equivalents                    126,224       119,968   
Short-term deposits                          231,000       215,250   
Marketable securities                         30,813        18,816   
Trade accounts receivable, net                99,471        87,300   
Inventories                                  111,204        85,905   
Other current assets                          21,347        19,548   
                                        ------------  ------------   
   
 Total current assets                        620,059       546,787   
                                        ------------  ------------   
   
Long-term deposits                            26,000        21,000   
Marketable securities                         87,115        73,576   
Long-term inventory                           11,879         9,023   
Deferred tax asset, net                        3,090         2,642   
Other assets, net                              2,001         1,370   
Property, plant and equipment, net            54,196        41,987   
Intangible assets, net                        13,357        16,937   
Goodwill                                      74,345        74,345   
                                        ------------  ------------   
   
   Total non- current assets                 271,983       240,880   
                                        ------------  ------------   
   
 Total assets                                892,042       787,667   
                                        ============  ============   
   
Liabilities and shareholders' equity   
------------------------------------------------------------------   
   
Current liabilities   
Trade accounts payable                        46,630        42,187   
Other current liabilities                     77,280        54,487   
                                        ------------  ------------   
   
 Total current liabilities                   123,910        96,674   
   
Long-term liabilities   
Deferred tax liabilities, net                  5,606         7,541   
Other long-term liabilities                   15,366        10,473   
Convertible notes                            197,925       196,831   
                                        ------------  ------------   
   Total long-term liabilities               218,897       214,845   
                                        ------------  ------------   
   
 Total liabilities                           342,807       311,519   
                                        ------------  ------------   
   
Commitments and contingencies   
   
Shareholders' equity   
Ordinary shares NIS 0.01 par value,   
100,000,000 shares authorized at   
December 31, 2024 and at December 31,   
2023;   
47,541,682 issued shares at December   
31, 2024 and 46,993,998 at December   
31, 2023;   
45,449,306 shares outstanding at   
December 31, 2024 and 44,901,622 at   
December 31, 2023                                177           176   
Additional paid-in capital                   214,931       200,389   
Accumulated other comprehensive income           203           129   
Retained earnings                            335,822       277,352   
                                        ------------  ------------   
                                             551,133       478,046   
Treasury stock, at cost (2,092,376 as   
of December 31, 2024 and December 31,        (1,898)   
2023)                                                      (1,898)   
                                        ------------  ------------   
   
Total shareholders' equity                   549,235       476,148   
                                        ------------  ------------   
   
 Total liabilities and shareholders'   
  equity                                     892,042       787,667   
                                        ------------  ------------   
   
   
   
   
                                                           Camtek Ltd.   
Consolidated Statements of Income   
----------------------------------------------------------------------   
(in thousands, except share data)   
   
                                                Three Months ended   
                  Year ended December 31,          December 31,   
                  ------------------------  --------------------------   
                      2024         2023         2024          2023   
                        U.S. dollars               U.S. dollars   
                  ------------------------  --------------------------   
   
Revenues               429,234     315,375       117,293        88,690   
Cost of revenues       219,283     167,742        59,161        48,902   
                  ------------  ----------  ------------  ------------   
   
Gross profit           209,951     147,633        58,132        39,788   
                  ------------  ----------  ------------  ------------   
   
   
Research and   
 development   
 costs                  38,287      31,470        10,371         8,042   
Selling, general   
 and   
 administrative   
 expense                63,595      50,751        16,461        14,527   
                  ------------  ----------  ------------  ------------   
                       101,882      82,221        26,832        22,569   
   
   
Operating income       108,069      65,412        31,300        17,219   
                  ------------  ----------  ------------  ------------   
   
Financial   
 income, net            23,169      22,218         6,175         5,682   
                  ------------  ----------  ------------  ------------   
   
Income before   
 income taxes          131,238      87,630        37,475        22,901   
                  ------------  ----------  ------------  ------------   
   
Income taxes   
 expense              (12,723)     (8,998)       (4,466)       (2,111)   
                  ------------  ----------  ------------  ------------   
   
Net income             118,515      78,632        33,009        20,790   
                  ============  ==========  ============  ============   
   
   
   
Net income per ordinary share:   
   
                                           Three Months ended December   
                 Year ended December 31,               31,   
                -------------------------  ---------------------------   
                    2024         2023          2024          2023   
                      U.S. dollars                U.S. dollars   
                -------------------------  ---------------------------   
   
 Basic net   
  earnings              2.62         1.76          0.73           0.46   
                ============  ===========  ============  =============   
   
 Diluted net   
  earnings              2.42         1.61          0.67           0.42   
                ============  ===========  ============  =============   
   
Weighted   
average   
number of   
ordinary   
shares   
outstanding:   
   
Basic                 45,279       44,725        45,428         44,882   
                ============  ===========  ============  =============   
   
Diluted               49,369       48,863        49,503         49,149   
                ============  ===========  ============  =============   
   
   
   
Reconciliation of GAAP To Non-GAAP results   
----------------------------------------------------------------------   
(In thousands, except share data)   
   
                                           Three Months ended December   
                 Year ended December 31,               31,   
                -------------------------  ---------------------------   
                    2024         2023         2024           2023   
                      U.S. dollars                U.S. dollars   
   
Reported net   
income   
attributable   
to   Camtek   
Ltd. on GAAP   
basis                118,515       78,632       33,009          20,790   
Acquisition of   
 FRT related   
 expenses (1)          5,334        4,550          650           4,550   
Share-based   
 compensation         14,775       12,525        4,052           2,868   
   
Non-GAAP net   
 income              138,624       95,707       37,711          28,208   
                ============  ===========  ===========  ==============   
   
Non--GAAP net   
 income per   
 diluted   
 share                  2.83         1.96         0.77            0.57   
Gross margin   
on GAAP basis   
Reported   
gross profit   
on GAAP               49.6%         46.8%       50.6%            44.9%   
basis                209,951      147,633       58,132          39,788   
Acquisition of   
 FRT-related   
 expenses (1)          5,802        3,492          610           3,492   
Share-based   
 compensation          2,197        1,591          595             395   
Non-GAAP gross   
 margin               50.8 %       48.4 %       50.6 %          49.2 %   
Non-GAAP gross   
 profit              217,950      152,716       59,337          43,675   
                ============  ===========  ===========  ==============   
   
Reported   
operating   
income (loss)   
attributable   
to Camtek   
Ltd. on GAAP   
basis                108,069       65,412       31,300          17,219   
Acquisition of   
 FRT-related   
 expenses (1)          7,455        5,406          928           5,406   
Share-based   
 compensation         14,775       12,525        4,052           2,868   
Non-GAAP   
 operating   
 income              130,299       83,343       36,280          25,493   
                ============  ===========  ===========  ==============   
 
```

(1) During the year ended December 31, 2024, the Company recorded acquisition-related expenses of $5.3 million, consisting of: (1) inventory written-up to fair value in purchase accounting charges of $3.4 million. This amount is recorded under cost of revenues line item. (2) $2.4 million amortization of intangible assets acquired recorded under cost of revenues line item. (3) $1.3 million amortization of intangible assets acquired recorded under sales and marketing expenses line item. (4) $0.4 million re-organization expenses, recorded under the general and administrative expenses line item. (5) $2.1 million reversal of tax provision related to the above adjustment, recorded under the tax expense line item.

During the three-month period ended December 31, 2024, the Company recorded acquisition-related expenses of $0.6 million, consisting of: (1) $0.6 million amortization of intangible assets acquired recorded under cost of revenues line item. (2) $0.3 million amortization of intangible assets acquired recorded under sales and marketing expenses line item. (3) $0.3 million reversal of tax provision related to the above adjustment, recorded under the tax expense line item.

During the year and three-month period ended December 31, 2023, the Company recorded acquisition expenses of $4.5 million, consisting of: (1) inventory written-up to fair value in purchase accounting charges of $2.2 million. This amount was recorded under cost of revenues line item. (2) $0.4 million amortization of intangible assets acquired recorded under cost of revenues line item. (3) Inventory write-off of $0.9 million recorded under costs of revenues line item. (4) $0.2 million amortization of intangible assets acquired recorded under sales and marketing expenses line item. (5) Acquisition expenses of $1.7 million recorded under general and administrative expenses line item. (6) $0.9 million reversal of tax provision related to the above adjustment, recorded under the tax expense line item.

```
   
 CAMTEK LTD.               INTERNATIONAL INVESTOR RELATIONS   
Moshe Eisenberg, CFO      EK Global Investor Relations   
Tel: +972 4 604 8308      Ehud Helft   
Mobile: +972 54 900 7100  Tel: (US) 1 212 378 8040   
moshee@camtek.com         camtek@ekgir.com   
   
 
```

Logo: https://mma.prnewswire.com/media/1534463/Camtek\_logo.jpg

View original content:https://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/camtek-announces-record-results-for-the-fourth-quarter--full-year-of-2024-302374668.html

SOURCE Camtek Ltd.

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250212006415:0/)
