---
title: "Ansell Could Shift Some Production as a Result of Tariffs — Interview"
date: "2025-02-10 12:14:00"
summary: "(04:14 GMT) *Ansell Could Shift Some Production as a Result of Tariffs, CEO Says(04:14 GMT) *Ansell Is Unlikely to Bulk Up U.S. Production, CEO Says(04:14 GMT) *Economics of High Labor-Cost Production Don't Stack Up, Ansell CEO Says(04:14 GMT) *Ansell Likely to Pass on Any Additional Tariff Costs, CEO Says(04:14 GMT)..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

**(04:14 GMT)** \*Ansell Could Shift Some Production as a Result of Tariffs, CEO Says  
**(04:14 GMT)** \*Ansell Is Unlikely to Bulk Up U.S. Production, CEO Says  
**(04:14 GMT)** \*Economics of High Labor-Cost Production Don't Stack Up, Ansell CEO Says  
**(04:14 GMT)** \*Ansell Likely to Pass on Any Additional Tariff Costs, CEO Says  
**(04:14 GMT)** Ansell Could Shift Some Production as a Result of Tariffs — Interview

By Stuart Condie

SYDNEY--Trade tariffs could push Ansell to change where it makes some of its personal-protection equipment, but that doesn't necessarily mean moving jobs to the U.S., its chief executive said.

The Australia-listed company is among the global manufacturers waiting for clarity on what the Trump administration's proposed tariffs mean for them.

President Trump has agreed to delay tariffs on Mexico for a month after a phone call with his Mexican counterpart. An additional 10% tariff on Chinese goods took effect last week, though Trump said they were just "an opening salvo."

Ansell could shift supply to the U.S. from other countries where it already has manufacturing capacity, and raise customers' prices where that isn't possible, Managing Director and CEO Neil Salmon said on Monday.

Salmon served as Ansell's chief financial officer and then head of its industrial unit when the U.S. previously imposed tariffs on China in 2018. Those higher costs didn't prompt Ansell to invest in local production then, and Salmon said things hadn't changed substantially since.

"The economics still don't stack up for those monetary investments in higher labor-cost countries, and it would require a really substantial shift in the economics of tariffs to shift the economics," Salmon said.

"If we see those equations shift, then we look to be ready to respond to that."

Shifting production would primarily involve utilizing capacity at existing plants and redirecting supply.

"It's not necessarily that we need to double our capacity in Country X and we can no longer run the facility in Country Y. It's about shifting the from-to supply arrangements to better match tariff arrangements," Salmon said.

Salmon said that Ansell was able to pass through those earlier tariff costs to customers, giving it confidence that it could do so again.

The company also has a more flexible supply base following diversification efforts directed by Salmon to respond to the sort of uncertainty created by government lockdowns during the Covid-19 pandemic.

"Coming out of that was a view--and this isn't specific to China--that we have a risk if we're solely dependent on one country for the source of all of one product. We've been looking to diversify, to build those options, and it turns out that was also the right strategy to be prepared for this tariff uncertainty," Salmon said.

Ansell, which operates 14 facilities in nine countries and also partners with other suppliers, completed the shift of some chemical-protection manufacturing to Sri Lanka from China during its most recent fiscal half. Ansell completed a warehouse upgrade in Mexico in the same period.

It inherited one outsourced provider in Mexico as part of its recent $640 million acquisition of Kimberly-Clark's personal-protective equipment business.

Salmon said that Ansell may need to look at alternative sources, but added that the company believes its competitors are similarly reliant on the same producer.

Write to Stuart Condie at stuart.condie@wsj.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250209001483:0/)
