---
title: "Global Commodities Roundup: Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-13 22:15:00"
summary: "The latest Market Talks covering Commodities. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.0858 ET - U.S. natural gas futures add to gains on strong heating demand and LNG feedgas flows, with production down from last week. The Nymex front month is up 4.4% at $3.722/mmBtu, its highest level..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The latest Market Talks covering Commodities. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.

0858 ET - U.S. natural gas futures add to gains on strong heating demand and LNG feedgas flows, with production down from last week. The Nymex front month is up 4.4% at $3.722/mmBtu, its highest level since the week of January 24 when a blast of Arctic weather led to the fourth-largest storage withdrawal on record. Today's EIA report is expected to show a below-average draw on inventories reflecting last week's respite in the weather, but a return to larger withdrawals is seen for following weeks. (anthony.harrup@wsj.com)

0824 ET - Oil futures add to the previous session's losses on the possibility of Russia-Ukraine peace talks promoted by President Trump and expectations Trump will outline plans today for reciprocal trade tariffs on countries that impose duties on U.S. goods. Spartan Capital's Peter Cardillo sees "demand factors stemming from these tariffs" contributing to weaker crude, "however, we believe the very low end of the $70 level will likely hold." WTI is off 1.1% at $70.59 a barrel. Brent crude is 1.1% lower at $74.33 a barrel. (anthony.harrup@wsj.com)

0737 ET - Base metal prices fall, with LME three-month copper down 0.2% at $9,451 a metric ton and LME three-month aluminum down 0.6% at $2,611 a ton. President Trump's 25% tariffs on steel and aluminum imports have caused volatility including in the U.S. to LME copper premium, though this is likely to be excessive, Macquarie's Marcus Garvey says in a note. The tariffs operate through the re-imposition and extension of 2018's Section 232 tariffs, and implicitly the same mechanism can't be used to apply tariffs to other commodities at short notice as that would need a related Commerce Department investigation, Garvey writes. That said, prices of copper and other base metals remain vulnerable to either blanket tariffs, or country-specific tariffs that would hit a large proportion of U.S. imports, Garvey adds. (joseph.hoppe@wsj.com)

0724 ET - Gold futures rise close to all-time highs on safe-haven and central bank demand. Futures rise 0.7% to $2,948.40 a troy ounce, close to the record $2,968.50 a troy ounce set during Tuesday's session. The precious metal has had a strong rally in the year-to-date, surpassing the above-consensus expectations of MUFG, analysts say in a note. The yellow metal is now closing in on $3,000 an ounce, which the Japanese bank had estimated would take until the third quarter of 2025. Gold's brisk start has much further to run, MUFG analysts say. Demand reflects both market fears around elevated geopolitical and economic uncertainties, driving safe-haven demand, and emerging market central bank demand, catalyzed by sanctions worries and risks of trade tariffs, MUFG says. (joseph.hoppe@wsj.com)

0624 ET - Nestle reported a better-than-expected performance in 2024 but warned of pressures on its margins in 2025, AJ Bell investment director Russ Mould says in a note. The company is dealing with a sharp increase in cocoa and coffee prices, the key ingredients for its core products, he says. Raising product prices to pass on such cost increases could be dangerous, Mould adds. Hence, the guidance for lower margins in 2025 implies that Nestle is "going to stomach some of the pain itself", he adds. Shares are up 6.2% at 83.68 Swiss francs. (michael.susin@wsj.com)

0619 ET - Unilever guidance is especially weak, as subdued consumers and rising commodity prices are taking a toll, Chris Beckett, head of equity research at Quilter Cheviot, writes. Consumers simply aren't spending as they were in the aftermath of the pandemic, and an uncertain economic environment has caused consumers to pull back, with discretionary items the first to go, he says. Beckett says it was hoped that Unilever was embarking on a sustained turnaround, and although it might still be happening, it will take longer than hoped. "Unilever may be right in that the second half of 2025 will be better, but a lot can change between now and then, especially given the political and economic upheaval we are witnessing." Shares fall 7.4% to 44.01 pounds. (dominic.chopping@wsj.com)

0522 ET - Palm oil ended lower amid concerns of weak demand for the coming weeks, according to David Ng, a trader at Kuala Lumpur-based Iceberg X. Weaker Dalian palm olein and soybean oil prices also weighed down price sentiment, Ng says. He sees support at MYR4500 and resistance at MYR4680. Investors may also be turning to profit-taking, resonating the mixed performance seen on Wall Street overnight as well as the retreat in crude oil prices, Kenanga Futures analysts say. The Bursa Malaysia Derivatives contract for April delivery falls MYR65 to MYR4556 a ton. (tracy.qu@wsj.com)

0453 ET - There are sparks of hope for Thyssenkrupp in 2025 after the German industrial company's first-quarter earnings rose and it lifted its cash flow guidance, Baader Helvea analyst Christian Obst says in a research note. Among the positive elements lying ahead for investors are Thyssenkrupp's expected internal portfolio decisions as well as European Union decisions regarding tighter import quotas, which might support a bottoming out of steel demand and prices, Obst says. Thyssenkrupp guided for a sales decline of 0% to 3% for the fiscal year, having previously expected 0% to 3% growth. Baader Helvea expects a 0.3% increase in sales. Thyssenkrupp shares trade 9.2% higher to 4.95 euros. (pierre.bertrand@wsj.com)

0443 ET - Thyssenkrupp can't rule out that U.S. tariffs might prompt Chinese steel exporters to look to other markets, putting pressure on European steelmakers, Chief Financial Officer Jens Schulte tells journalists during a post-earnings call. Schulte says the company doesn't currently know how the situation will unfold over the coming months, but it is possible that Chinese players that currently deliver to the U.S. could try to deliver more steel into Europe. The potential development needs to be analyzed in detail as the degree of pressure on Europe would depend on the type and quality of the steel imports, Schulte says. Thyssenkrupp shares trade 9.3% higher to 4.95 euros. (pierre.bertrand@wsj.com)

0413 ET - Oil prices extend the previous trading session's losses on news that U.S. President Trump and Russia's Vladimir Putin agreed to open talks to end the war in Ukraine. Brent crude is down 0.5% to $74.80 a barrel, while WTI falls 0.6% to $70.97 a barrel. Both benchmarks closed more than 2% lower on Wednesday, pressured by prospects of lower supply risks and speculation over a potential easing of restrictions on Russian producers. Meanwhile, hotter-than-expected inflation data in the U.S. is also weighing on sentiment, upholding the Federal Reserve's more cautious stance on interest-rate cuts. (giulia.petroni@wsj.com)

0404 ET - Michelin's guidance for 2025 offers some relief given that the company points to rising earnings, Deutsche Bank's Christoph Laskawi says in a note. The French tire maker reported revenue and earnings that were in line with expectations, while its cash generation beat forecasts, the analyst says. More importantly, the company guided for growing earnings in 2025, which is in line with expectations but should provide relief to those who feared worse, Laskawi says. Michelin didn't hint at an extension to its 1 billion-euro buyback program, but this could come in the second half of the year, the analyst says. Shares jump 5.2%. (adria.calatayud@wsj.com)

0356 ET - Base metal prices fall in slow trade, with LME three-month copper down 0.2% at $9,459 a metric ton and LME three-month aluminum down 0.6% at $2,611.50 a ton. President Trump has hiked the U.S. aluminum tariff to 25% from 10%, maintained the steel import tariff at 25% and removed all exemptions. Previously the exemptions had allowed for duty-free imports of steel and aluminum and limited the hit from tariffs to U.S. prices, MUFG analysts say in a note. That said, going with the base case scenario that there are no major exemptions, the tariffs will likely be predominantly passed onto U.S., not global prices, MUFG adds. Buyers in the U.S. already pay a Midwest premium over LME prices. (joseph.hoppe@wsj.com)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250213010268:0/)
