---
title: "Stocks Poised for Lower Open — Barrons.com"
date: "2025-02-10 07:32:00"
summary: "By Janet H. ChoStock futures were falling after President Donald Trump announced plans to impose new 25% tariffs on all steel and aluminum imports as investors await this week's inflation report.At 6:08 p.m. Eastern time on Sunday, Dow Jones Industrial Average futures were down 63 points, or 0.1%, S&amp;P 500..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Janet H. Cho

Stock futures were falling after President Donald Trump announced plans to impose new 25% tariffs on all steel and aluminum imports as investors await this week's inflation report.

At 6:08 p.m. Eastern time on Sunday, Dow Jones Industrial Average futures were down 63 points, or 0.1%, S&P 500 futures were down 0.2%, and Nasdaq Composite futures were down 0.2%.

Trump said he would announce the steel and aluminum tariffs on Monday, and he also plans to announce reciprocal tariffs on other countries. Trump, talking to reporters as he traveled to the Super Bowl on Sunday, also said Elon Musk's Department of Government Efficiency had uncovered some irregularities in U.S. Treasuries and suggested the U.S. may disregard some, without elaborating.

This week's economic highlights include the January consumer price index coming out Wednesday, the producer price index on Thursday, and U.S. retail sales for January coming out on Friday.

The National Federation of Independent Business on Tuesday will release its Small Business Optimism Index for January.

The Dow Jones Industrial Average closed down 0.54% last week at 44,303.40, snapping a three-week winning streak, according to Dow Jones Market Data. The Dow is up 4.13% this year.

Both the S&P 500 index and the Nasdaq Composite index closed down for the second straight week. The S&P 500 index was down 0.2% last week to 6,025.99.

The S&P 500 saw the largest two-week point and percentage decline since the week ending Jan. 10, and has declined six of the past nine weeks, according to Dow Jones Market Data. The S&P 500 is up 2.45% this year.

The Nasdaq Composite closed down 0.5% last week to 19,523.40, also the largest two-week point and percentage decline since the week ending Jan. 10. The Nasdaq has declined for four of the past six weeks, and is up 1.1% this year.

Write to Janet H. Cho at janet.cho@dowjones.com

This content was created by Barron's, which is operated by Dow Jones & Co. Barron's is published independently from Dow Jones Newswires and The Wall Street Journal.

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250209000891:0/)
