---
title: "Financial Services Roundup: Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-13 17:20:00"
summary: "The latest Market Talks covering Financial Services. Exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires at 4:20 ET, 12:20 ET and 16:50 ET.0811 GMT - Barclays posted a solid set of results but there is little new to get excited about, Citi says in a research note. \"This, plus the strong run up..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The latest Market Talks covering Financial Services. Exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires at 4:20 ET, 12:20 ET and 16:50 ET.

0811 GMT - Barclays posted a solid set of results but there is little new to get excited about, Citi says in a research note. "This, plus the strong run up in the share price over the past year, may temper any initial reaction, but the stock still appears inexpensive in our view," the analysts write. The British bank posted pretax profit ahead of consensus with a beat in revenue. Its new guidance for 2025 is broadly in line with consensus and 2026 targets were confirmed, they add. Other items, including the 1 billion pound share buyback, also met expectations. Shares fall more than 4% to 294 pence.(elena.vardon@wsj.com)

0741 GMT - Commerzbank's midterm plan to 2028 is bullish and the relatively linear progress on its targets is a positive, Deutsche Bank says in a research note after the German lender's update. "While the afternoon session will help to judge the credibility of the bullish new targets, we are particularly encouraged by the positive 2025 guidance, high near-term capital return (12.5% yield for 2025), and a new restructuring program with 500 million euros of savings," analysts Benjamin Goy and Marlene Eibensteiner write. (elena.vardon@wsj.com)

0733 GMT - Commerzbank's targets for revenue and operating leverage appear punchy, RBC Capital Markets says in a research note after the German lender outlined a fresh midterm strategy. The new plan points to stronger top-line growth while keeping a lid on costs, with higher capital distributions an extra driver of shareholder returns. The bank is targeting a 15% return on tangible equity--a key profitability measure--for 2028 and a 13.6% return in 2027, ahead of consensus' 11.1% for the latter year. "We are awaiting to get more confidence in the Capital Markets Day presentations with some of this likely to be a function of 'seeing is believing'," analyst Anke Reingen writes. She adds that 2025 guidance points to better profit on higher revenue, which will more than offset higher loan losses. (elena.vardon@wsj.com)

0431 GMT - Public Bank's 4Q 2024 profit may decline by mid-to-high single digits sequentially, amid net interest margin pressure and lower pre-emptive provisions reversals, RHB IB analysts David Chong and Nabil Thoo say in a note. Operating income could hold steady, supported by stable loan growth despite deposit competition, they reckon. However, 4Q results may be volatile due to a MYR350 million-MYR520 million goodwill impairment, credit losses in Hong Kong's unit, and LPI Capital's maiden contribution after its stake acquisition, none of which are factored into RHB's forecasts, they say. Still, the market may focus on Public bank's outlook and updates on major shareholder's stake holdings instead of the earnings result, they add. RHB stays neutral on Public Bank and keeps the target price at MYR4.80. Shares are 0.2% lower at MYR4.49.(yingxian.wong@wsj.com)

0243 GMT - Bank Tabungan Negara (Persero) is likely to continue to face headwinds this year, following weaker-than-expected results last year, Bahana Sekuritas analysts say in a research report. A tightening liquidity environment in Indonesia has put pressure on the profitability of major banks, the analysts note. The Indonesian bank may also see higher operating expenditures and slower loan growth this year, with management's loan-growth guidance lowered to 7%-8% for 2025 from 10%-11% for 2024, the analysts say. The brokerage cuts the stock's target price to IDR1,000.00 from IDR1,225.00 with an unchanged hold rating. Shares are 1.1% higher at IDR940.00. (ronnie.harui@wsj.com)

0155 GMT - Hong Leong Bank's 1H FY2025 net profit may rise by mid-to-high single digits on year, driven by strong income growth and cost discipline, though contributions from its associate, Bank of Chengdu, may soften amid China's policy rate cuts, RHB IB analysts say. Nabil Thoo and David Chong say the lender is likely to see robust income growth in 2Q FY2025, with net interest income holding steady. Loan growth may exceed 6%-7% guidance as sequentially weaker ringgit could lead to forex gains, they add. The analysts expect non-interest income for 2Q could also be strong, particularly from treasury and markets income amid a conducive trading environment. RHB maintains a buy rating on Hong Leong Bank and keeps target price at MYR26.60. Shares are 0.5% lower at MYR20.54. (yingxian.wong@wsj.com)

0134 GMT - Maybank should report steady on-quarter net interest income for 4Q 2024, supported by efforts to manage loan yield and deposit costs, RHB IB analysts David Chong and Nabil Thoo say in a note. Meanwhile noninterest income is expected to have softened on quarter due to lower treasury and markets income, though fee income may have stayed resilient, they say. RHB IB forecasts Maybank's 4Q earnings to fall by low to mid single digits sequentially, but rise on year. It expects seasonally higher operating expenses in 4Q to have weighed on profit. RHB maintains a neutral rating on Maybank and keeps its target price at MYR11.00. Shares are unchanged at MYR10.60. (yingxian.wong@wsj.com)

2221 GMT - Infrastructure specialist Brookfield Asset Management, originally a Canadian firm now based in New York, believes its "domestically oriented" approach would largely shield its investments from a potential trade war between the U.S. and Canada, CEO Bruce Flatt says during an earnings call. "We own infrastructure and real assets that are integrated into...local communities. We're local in every market that we invest in around the world," he says. "Only a small portion of our business focuses on goods and services that travel across borders." The inflation-tied contracts that Brookfield-backed infrastructure operators typically have with users offer another protection, he adds. "The bulk of our business will be largely insulated from any price increases as a result of tariffs, if they are to be implemented." (luis.garcia@wsj.com; @lhvgarcia)

2054 GMT - Cryptocurrency drove nearly half of Robinhood's transaction-based revenue in 4Q, the online brokerage says. Crypto volumes expanded four-fold and higher crypto valuations boosted total assets under custody. The digital currency's power in Robinhood's financials is something to watch as the regulatory environment eases under the Trump administration and the company continues to make investments in the sector. It added seven new crypto assets in the U.S. last year and agreed to buy the crypto exchange Bitstamp, which is set to be finalized in the first half of 2025. Shares up 13% to $62.99 in after hours trading. (katherine.hamilton@wsj.com)

1926 GMT - Chip-card technology was supposed to cut down on fraud when it was rolled out in the mid-2010s. But roughly a decade of evidence shows that the tech has only enabled limited progress on fighting fraud, economist Fumiko Hayashi of the Kansas City Fed finds. Fraud rates on dual-message payment networks (such as Visa, Mastercard and Discover) have in general failed to decline, or have even increased, despite broad adoption of chip debit cards. (The research excludes prepaid debit cards.) Fraud trends are a bit better for single-message payment networks, which require the user to enter a PIN at the point of sale in addition to inserting the chip. Understanding why this has happened will require more research, Hayashi writes. (matt.grossman@wsj.com, @mattgrossman)

1725 GMT - High mortgage rates, rising to 7.04% in January compared with mid-6% last year, are impacting buyers more than sellers, Zillow says. Home values, up 44% since pre-pandemic and 2.6% year-over- year, make affordability tough, with pending sales down 3.6%. Buyers face challenges, but many listings see price cuts. Sellers, less affected by rates, are listing more, with new listings up 12% year over year, driven by equity gains and life events like job changes or family growth. Western markets like Portland, Seattle, Denver, and San Francisco are seeing the fastest listing growth. Despite buyer struggles, 25% of homes sold in December exceeded asking price, up from 19% pre-pandemic, showing some sellers still benefit in this market. (chris.wack@wsj.com)

1651 GMT - Home listings are selling for less than asking price and taking longer to sell, according to Redfin. In January, the typical U.S. home was selling for 1.8% below asking, the largest discount in nearly two years, and taking 56 days to go under contract, the longest in almost five years. About 56% of listings remain on the market for at least 60 days, similar to last year but down from 61% last month, the highest in five years. High home prices--up 4% year over year--and elevated mortgage rates have pushed buyer payments near record highs, slowing the market. Political and economic uncertainty are also deterring buyers. But this slow market gives buyers more room to negotiate on price and terms, offering some relief amid high costs and low inventory. (chris.wack@wsj.com)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250213004523:0/)
