---
title: "His Go-To Place for Buying Vintage Buicks: A Bank Parking Spot — WSJ"
date: "2025-02-09 21:00:00"
summary: "By A.J. Baime | Photographs and video by Kelsey McClellan for WSJDavid Lewin, 61, general manager of the Grand Hyatt San Francisco hotel, on his 1965 Buicks, as told to A.J. Baime.Growing up in San Francisco, my dad had a friend who owned a Buick dealership, so every year we..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By A.J. Baime | Photographs and video by Kelsey McClellan for WSJ

David Lewin, 61, general manager of the Grand Hyatt San Francisco hotel, on his 1965 Buicks, as told to A.J. Baime.

Growing up in San Francisco, my dad had a friend who owned a Buick dealership, so every year we would get two new Buicks. My first car was a 1973 Buick Electra 225. A good buddy had a 1972 Riviera "boattail." My cousin had a 1973 Electra Limited. You might say I have Buick in my blood. At one point, I stumbled on an original brochure for 1965 Buicks. The brand made many models that year, and I decided that I wanted to buy one of each.

Twenty-six years ago, I stumbled on a 1965 Buick Wildcat parked in front of a bank on Noriega Street in San Francisco. The owner's name was Don, and I told him that if he ever wanted to sell this car, I was his guy. Two weeks later, he sold it to me for one dollar more than he paid for it. I wrote a check for $3,401.

The Wildcat has traveled with me to all the places I have lived ever since. I drove it in Los Angeles, Oahu, Hawaii, Chicago and San Francisco. I have restored this car twice over the past 26 years.

In the fall of 2020, my cousin saw a 1965 Buick Riviera with a "for sale" sign. Turns out, this Riviera was parked in front of the same bank on Noriega Street where I first saw my Wildcat. I called the owner, and the guy's name was also Don. I bought the Riviera and have spent the last two years restoring it. So now I own two 1965 Buicks, both of which I first saw in front of the same bank, both of which I purchased from a guy named Don.

The funniest thing about these cars is the way people react to them. People honk their horns and give me thumbs-up. The cars make people happy. Yes, they are very big cars, but I grew up around big cars, so they do not seem big to me.

Both are amazingly fun to drive, even on the tight streets of San Francisco. Both have a 401-cubic-inch V-8 engine and tons of power. Both go like there's no tomorrow. Power steering, power brakes — they handle well, even on San Francisco's hills. You can go 90 mph on the freeway and it's like you're in your living room sitting on your couch.

I still need to fill out the rest of the 1965 Buick lineup. I am waiting for somebody named Don to pull up in a 1965 Electra 225, a LeSabre, a Skylark or a Special in front of that bank on Noriega Street.

Write to A.J. Baime at myride@wsj.com.

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250209000332:0/)
