---
title: "Soybean Futures Fall as Wasde Fallout Extends — Daily Grain Highlights"
date: "2025-02-13 04:50:00"
summary: "By Kirk MaltaisSoybeans for March delivery fell 1.5% to $10.28 1/2 a bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade on Wednesday, with funds moving away from soybeans and towards corn after Tuesday's Wasde report showed large crops globally.Wheat for March delivery fell 0.5% to $5.74 1/4 a bushel.Corn for March..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Kirk Maltais

* Soybeans for March delivery fell 1.5% to $10.28 1/2 a bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade on Wednesday, with funds moving away from soybeans and towards corn after Tuesday's Wasde report showed large crops globally.
* Wheat for March delivery fell 0.5% to $5.74 1/4 a bushel.
* Corn for March delivery rose 1.4% to $4.91 a bushel.

HIGHLIGHTS

Switching Lanes: Soybeans finished trading leading downward momentum on the CBOT, momentum that only corn futures managed to avoid in Wednesday's session. Part of the reason why is that after Tuesday's Wasde report, traders see the supply/demand situation for soybeans relaxed globally - meaning little support for higher prices. "Beans got squashed today, mostly off buy corn/sell bean ratio spreading after the Wasde yesterday," said Charlie Sernatinger of Marex in a note. He adds that China's appetite for soybean exports is also weak, even for Brazilian options.

Status Quo: Traders are again focusing on the weather in South America following Tuesday's Wasde report forecast a tighter crop in Argentina but a still huge output out of Brazil, especially for soybeans. "The rains and delays in South America have a track record of pressuring yields which is keeping the bulls on the long side of the market fed," said Sterling Smith of StoneX in a note.

INSIGHT

The Waiting Game: Markets are mostly pricing one interest rate cut, or none at all, this year in the U.S. after January CPI moved further away from the Fed's 2% target, at 3%. Capital Economics' Paul Ashworth thinks a cut this year looks increasingly unlikely. "With tariffs likely to keep core PCE inflation close to, or above, 3% this year now, the Fed will stand pat for at least the next 12 months," he writes. For farmers, this means that relief to higher interest rates on their operational loans isn't coming - unless the USDA makes a policy change to relieve cash-strapped producers.

Hit the Brakes: Average daily production of ethanol in the U.S. continues to fluctuate, this week sinking after coming close to an all-time record high the previous week. The EIA said Wednesday that U.S. ethanol through the week ended Feb. 7 averaged production of 1.082 million barrels a day. That's off 30,000 barrels a day from last week's production figure, falling within the estimates of analysts surveyed by Dow Jones this week. Inventories also fell back, dropping to 25.69 million barrels. Traders were hoping that the Wasde report this week would show higher demand for corn by ethanol producers, but the USDA did not adjust its outlook.

AHEAD

* The USDA will release its weekly export sales report at 8:30 a.m. ET Thursday.
* The CFTC will release its weekly Commitment of Traders report at 3:30 p.m. ET Friday.
* The USDA and Chicago Board of Trade will be closed in observance of President's Day on Monday. Both will reopen on Tuesday.

Paulo Trevisani contributed to this article.

Write to Kirk Maltais at kirk.maltais@wsj.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250212011904:0-soybean-futures-fall-as-wasde-fallout-extends-daily-grain-highlights/)
