---
title: "Nikkei May Rise as Weak Yen Raises Hopes for Earnings Growth — Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-12 07:49:00"
summary: "1849 ET - Japanese stocks may rise as a weaker yen raises hopes for domestic earnings growth. Nikkei futures are up 0.7% at 39060 on the SGX. USD/JPY is at 152.72, compared with 151.85 as of Monday's Tokyo stock market close. Japanese markets were closed Tuesday for a national holiday...."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

1849 ET - Japanese stocks may rise as a weaker yen raises hopes for domestic earnings growth. Nikkei futures are up 0.7% at 39060 on the SGX. USD/JPY is at 152.72, compared with 151.85 as of Monday's Tokyo stock market close. Japanese markets were closed Tuesday for a national holiday. Investors are focusing on earnings as well as U.S. trade policies. Toray Industries and Yamaha Motor are set to release their quarterly results later in the day. The Nikkei Stock Average closed flat at 38801.17 on Monday. (kosaku.narioka@wsj.com)

1724 ET - Many economists predicted that once pandemic-era stimulus ran dry, consumer spending would take a hit. But it isn't all that surprising that it didn't play out that way, because predictions of the consumer's demise often miss the mark, New York Fed President John Williams tells reporters. Supporting solid consumer-spending growth last year was a strong labor market, as well as strong asset performance in financial markets that boosted household wealth, Williams says. In 2025, Williams says that consumer-spending growth might slow slightly to conform better with a long-term trend line. (matt.grossman@wsj.com; @mattgrossman)

1724 ET - NY Fed President John Williams says measures of housing inflation are partly responsible for his forecast that overall inflation is likely to finish 2025 around 2.5%, somewhat above the Fed's 2% target. With housing disinflation, "it took longer to get that process going," and therefore it will take a while yet for slower housing price increases to translate into a less inflationary addition to the overall figure. Another stubborn inflation metric, core services inflation excluding housing, is set to continue making gradual progress too, Williams tells a group of reporters. (matt.grossman@wsj.com; @mattgrossman)

1614 ET - New York Fed President John Williams says that two dissents from policy voters at recent Fed meetings simply reflect officials' dedication to steering policy effectively. "This is really about people looking at the data...and coming out in a different place about how to achieve our goals," Williams says in remarks at a Pace University campus in New York City. Dissents are a "healthy sign that we're having a very active debate," he says. Williams suggests that dissents may become more common when the central bank is approaching a policy turning point. (matt.grossman@wsj.com; @mattgrossman)

1608 ET - NY Fed President John Williams reiterates his view that it may take more than a year to get inflation all the way back to the Fed's 2% target. Williams says in a speech at a Pace University campus in New York City that he expects inflation to end this year at roughly 2.5%, near its current level as of December, per the Fed's preferred inflation gauge. He says he expects inflation to gradually fall to the Fed's 2% target over more time. (matt.grossman@wsj.com; @mattgrossman)

1558 ET - Treasury yields rise ahead of inflation data and after Fed Chair Powell reaffirmed the economy is well and interest rates can remain unchanged. In his semiannual testimony in the Senate, Powell said rates can be on hold for longer if inflation remains above the Fed's 2% target. He will address the House tomorrow. Also tomorrow, January CPI is expected to basically keep December's pace. In a Wall Street Journal Survey, economists forecast the 12-month reading at 2.9% and core at 3.1%. Wholesale inflation data are due Thursday. The 10-year yield rises for the fourth consecutive session, by 0.044 percentage point to 4.536%. The two-year gains 0.025 p.p. to 4.290%. (paulo.trevisani@wsj.com; @ptrevisani)

1438 ET - The U.S.'s plan to impose new restrictions on exports of key technologies used in artificial intelligence to foreign countries is counterproductive, says Henna Virkkunen, the European Commission's top tech regulator. "We will use all diplomatic means to request that the U.S. would treat the EU in a non-discriminatory way," she says, adding that lifting the restrictions would benefit both the EU and U.S. and calling the EU "the best customer of the U.S. for tech exports." The U.S. floated its AI chip export restrictions — which could lead to many EU member states having the number they can buy capped — last month in an effort to safeguard against national security risks. (edith.hancock@wsj.com)

1332 ET - Former Canadian finance minister Chrystia Freeland is championing a cap on profit margins from grocery-store owners, and a limit on credit-card interest rates in her bid to become the new leader of Canada's Liberal Party and next prime minister of Canada. In her latest policy statement, she says the cap of grocers' margins on essential items like dairy and produce, and credit-card rates of no greater than 15% will help alleviate the financial squeeze Canadian households face. She adds she would cut the tax rate on the first C$111,000 of income. Polling suggests she trails her main rival, former central banker Mark Carney, as the preferred Liberal leader. Liberal Party members pick a new leader on March 9, and that person will succeed Justin Trudeau as PM and likely be in the election campaign shortly afterward. (Paul.Vieira@wsj.com, @paulvieira)

1201 ET - The European Commission's plan to drive investment into artificial intelligence needs more to work, says Chris Grey, a partner specializing in technology deals at law firm Ashurst. The plan--which includes a 20 billion-euro investment in AI gigafactories--is "a good start, but this is table stakes in a global race that the EU is already behind in," he says. Grey notes that Europe is home to just 4% of global AI computational power. "Member states need to provide an investment climate that encourages significant buy-in from private investors, infra funds and the global tech players if the EU hopes to catch up to U.S. and China investment in AI," he says. (edith.hancock@wsj.com)

1154 ET - Shopify says removing the de minimis trade exemption will harm small businesses, the bread and butter of its clientele. In a call to investors, executives said small and medium businesses are responsible for around two-thirds of all jobs created and said that merchants on the platform alone move billions of dollar across the border, and de minimis is crucial for them. Executives said that they try to help by displaying more information, such as what duties are being collected at checkout, or make it easier for shoppers to buy from their own countries. "We try to protect and empower every business we can but obviously especially we care about the underdogs," they said. (adriano.marchese@wsj.com)

1144 ET - Fed Chair Jerome Powell tells a Senate committee that the neutral interest rate has likely risen substantially since before the pandemic. The neutral rate was "clearly very low before the pandemic," he says. "I think it has moved up. And many of my colleagues on the FOMC" think so too," Powell says. The neutral rate is the hypothetical benchmark interest rate that would neither restrain nor boost the economy, and its value informs whether Federal Reserve policy is tight or easy at any given moment. But it is a theoretical concept that cannot be directly observed or known in real time. (matt.grossman@wsj.com, @mattgrossman)

1131 ET - Republican Senator Cynthia Lummis of Wyoming expresses frustration to Fed Chair Jerome Powell over what she describes as the central bank's resistance to congressional oversight. "This is why the American people think there's a deep state," Lummis says. "We always work with the committee to be responsive to your requests," Powell says in response. (matt.grossman@wsj.com)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250211012919:0/)
