---
title: "Basic Materials Roundup: Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-08 05:50:00"
summary: "The latest Market Talks covering Basic Materials. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires at 4:20 ET, 12:20 ET and 16:50 ET.0634 ET - Aurubis is off to a solid start after a series of setbacks and headwinds in the primary smelting markets, Deutsche Bank Research analyst Bastian Synagowitz says in..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The latest Market Talks covering Basic Materials. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires at 4:20 ET, 12:20 ET and 16:50 ET.

0634 ET - Aurubis is off to a solid start after a series of setbacks and headwinds in the primary smelting markets, Deutsche Bank Research analyst Bastian Synagowitz says in a research note. The German metals supplier posted first-quarter operating pretax earnings in line with expectations and a free-cash-flow that was significantly better than expected, the analyst says. "This should put the company well on track to achieve unchanged guidance." Shares trade 1.5% higher at 81.45 euros. (nina.kienle@wsj.com)

2319 ET - Lotte Chemical Titan may see sustained heavy losses in 1Q and over the next three years due to a weak petrochemical cycle and margin pressures, Maybank IB analyst Jeremie Yap says in a note. He widens the chemicals company's 2025-2026 net loss estimates, factoring in higher input naphtha costs and lower operating rates following 4Q 2024's losses. Maybank cuts Lotte's target price to MYR0.39 from MYR0.91, while maintaining a sell rating on the stock due to a negative view on petrochemical sector. Shares are 6.1% lower at MYR0.54 (yingxian.wong@wsj.com)

2035 ET - Press Metal Aluminium's earnings outlook may remain positive, supported by favorable aluminum prices and easing alumina costs, Affin Hwang IB analyst Andrew Lim says in a note. The global aluminum market may face a supply deficit in 2025, with demand driven by potential interest rate cuts and China's stimulus, he says. Lim raises Press Metal's 2025-2026 earnings forecast by 8% each on higher LME aluminum price estimates and a stronger ringgit. A key catalyst could come in 2028 if the company secures new hydropower for aluminum production, he adds. Affin Hwang raises Press Metal's target price to MYR5.70 from MYR5.30 and maintains a buy rating. Shares are 0.2% lower at MYR4.98. (yingxian.wong@wsj.com)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250207010835:0/)
