---
title: "Southeastern Grocers announces new ownership of iconic Winn-Dixie banner"
date: "2025-02-08 06:40:00"
summary: "(22:19 GMT) *Consortium Buys Southeastern Grocers and Its Winn-Dixie and Harveys Brands From Aldi(22:21 GMT) *Consortium Includes CEO of Southeastern Anthony Hucker and C&amp;S Wholesale Grocers(22:25 GMT) *Aldi Divesting Approximately 170 Winn-Dixie and Harveys Supermarket Stores(22:26 GMT) *Aldi to Convert Select Winn-Dixie and Harveys Stores to Aldi Format(22:29 GMT) *Aldi:..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

**(22:19 GMT)** \*Consortium Buys Southeastern Grocers and Its Winn-Dixie and Harveys Brands From Aldi  
**(22:21 GMT)** \*Consortium Includes CEO of Southeastern Anthony Hucker and C&S Wholesale Grocers  
**(22:25 GMT)** \*Aldi Divesting Approximately 170 Winn-Dixie and Harveys Supermarket Stores  
**(22:26 GMT)** \*Aldi to Convert Select Winn-Dixie and Harveys Stores to Aldi Format  
**(22:29 GMT)** \*Aldi: Including Conversions and New Stores, More Than 225 Aldi Stores Expected to Open in 2025  
**(22:40 GMT)** Press Release: Southeastern Grocers announces new ownership of iconic Winn-Dixie banner

Southeastern Grocers announces new ownership of iconic Winn-Dixie banner

* A consortium of private investors, including SEG's longstanding supply chain partner, C&S, acquired the Southeastern Grocers business from ALDI; Anthony Hucker, will serve as Chair, CEO and President.
* The consortium will immediately assume day-to-day operation of Winn-Dixie grocery and liquor stores and Harveys Supermarket, with prior agreed locations converting to ALDI through 2027.
* The purchase solidifies SEG's continued legacy in the Southeast and aligns both leadership and ownership for reinvestment and growth in the organization.

JACKSONVILLE, Fla.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--February 07, 2025--

A consortium of private investors, spearheaded by the current CEO and President of Southeastern Grocers Inc. (SEG), Anthony Hucker, and C&S Wholesale Grocers, today announces it has acquired Southeastern Grocers and its Winn-Dixie and Harveys Supermarket banners from ALDI U.S. ALDI U.S. previously purchased Southeastern Grocers in March 2024.

This press release features multimedia. View the full release here: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20250207698911/en/

The agreement includes the acquisition of SEG grocery and liquor store operations under the Winn-Dixie and Harveys Supermarket banners. This includes approximately 170 grocery stores in Alabama, Georgia, Louisiana, Mississippi and Florida, as well as the existing Winn-Dixie liquor store business. ALDI intends to complete its previously stated conversion plans with a total of approximately 220 Winn-Dixie and Harveys Supermarket stores to be converted to the ALDI format over a multi-year conversion process that began in March 2024, and is expected to conclude in 2027.

Anthony Hucker, Chair, CEO and President of Southeastern Grocers, said, "We are profoundly grateful and deeply honored to continue serving the communities we cherish. Our culture and path forward are firmly grounded in our 100-year legacy--a legacy built on strong values and a shared purpose of caring for one another. Throughout this transformational journey, our commitment to thoughtful, purpose-driven growth remains strong and propels us forward with renewed momentum. As we reinvest in the store fleet, we are inspired by listening loudly to the voices of our customers, to elevate and revolutionize our customer experience and store offerings, so that each step we take will reflect our dedication to our people and our communities."

Eric Winn, Chief Executive Officer of C&S Wholesale Grocers, said, "This consortium continues C&S and SEG's longstanding partnership. For 20 years, we have worked together to feed our communities. C&S has remained steadfast in our commitment to our transformation strategy, which includes being an industry-leading grocery wholesaler and retailer. Our unrelenting focus on long-term growth continues with an exciting opportunity for C&S to invest in and collaborate deeply with the retail market. C&S will leverage our best-in-class capabilities to provide value and quality to shoppers as we continue advancing our legacy of braggingly happy customers."

ALDI and SEG leadership will continue to work together closely to ensure a smooth transition, with dedicated leaders overseeing the store conversion and hiring process. SEG will continue to operate the remaining stores identified for conversion in the normal course of business, with the same level of care and focus on quality and service, up to and until each respective store is closed for conversion.

RBC Capital Markets, LLC served as financial advisor to the consortium. Foley & Lardner LLP and Sullivan & Cromwell LLP served as legal counsel. For continued updates and additional assets to assist in media coverage, please visit www.segrocers.com/updates.

About Winn-Dixie

Founded in 1925, Winn-Dixie grocery stores and liquor stores serve communities throughout five southeastern states — Alabama, Florida, Georgia, Louisiana and Mississippi. Winn-Dixie Stores, Inc. is a subsidiary of Southeastern Grocers, an omnichannel retailer serving customers in brick-and-mortar grocery stores and liquor stores, as well as online with convenient grocery delivery and curbside pickup throughout the Southeast. For more information, please visit www.winndixie.com and www.segrocers.com.

About Southeastern Grocers

Southeastern Grocers Inc. (SEG), parent company and home of Harveys Supermarket and Winn-Dixie grocery stores, is an omnichannel retailer serving customers in brick-and-mortar grocery stores and liquor stores, as well as online with convenient grocery delivery and curbside pickup throughout Alabama, Florida, Georgia, Louisiana and Mississippi. Harveys Supermarket and Winn-Dixie are well-known and well-respected regional brands with deep heritages, strong neighborhood ties, proud histories of giving back, talented and caring associates and a strong commitment to providing the best possible quality and value to customers. For more information, visit www.harveyssupermarkets.com and www.winndixie.com.

About C&S Wholesale Grocers, LLC

C&S Wholesale Grocers, LLC is an industry leader in supply chain solutions and wholesale grocery supply in the United States. Founded in 1918 as a supplier to independent grocery stores, C&S now services customers of all sizes, supplying more than 7,500 independent supermarkets, chain stores, military bases and institutions with over 100,000 different products. C&S also proudly operates and supports corporate grocery stores and services independent franchisees under a chain-style model throughout the Midwest, South and Northeast. We are an engaged corporate citizen, supporting causes that positively impact our communities. To learn more, please visit www.cswg.com.

View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20250207698911/en/

CONTACT: For SEG interviews or images contact:

Meredith Hurley

Senior Director, Communications and Community

(904) 370-6029

media@segrocers.com

C&S Media Contact:

Lauren La Bruno

Vice President of Communications, Change Management and Community Relations

C&S Wholesale Grocers, LLC

CSComm@cswg.com

C&S Investor Relations:

Julie Drake

Vice President, Assistant Treasurer

IR@cswg.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250207011115:0/)
