---
title: "News Highlights: Top Company News of the Day - Sunday at 11 PM ET"
date: "2025-02-10 12:15:00"
summary: "Elliott Takes Stake in Struggling Oil Giant BPThe activist hedge fund is encouraging BP to consider more dramatic moves to restore the once venerable company's fortunes.Behind the Oil Industry's Biggest Divorce: Chevron Versus CaliforniaThe energy giant sank the state's first successful oil well, kicking off a boom that powered California's..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

**Elliott Takes Stake in Struggling Oil Giant BP**

The activist hedge fund is encouraging BP to consider more dramatic moves to restore the once venerable company's fortunes.

**Behind the Oil Industry's Biggest Divorce: Chevron Versus California**

The energy giant sank the state's first successful oil well, kicking off a boom that powered California's economy for more than a century. Goodwill has since gone dry.

**Ozempic Slimming Can Make Skin Sag. Enter the $20,000 'Body Lift.'**

Plastic surgeons say business is booming as users of obesity drugs reassess how they look.

**Sonos Finally Hits the Hard Reset Button**

An app fiasco is still hurting sales, but the new CEO is charting a way out of the speaker-maker's jam.

**McDonald's Discounts Could Hurt Profit. Watch the Earnings on Monday.**

While quarterly revenue is expected to come slightly higher than a year ago, earnings estimates are 3.4% down from a year ago.

**Trump's Role in TikTok Talks: Dealmaker in Chief**

Vice President JD Vance will oversee negotiations with companies signaling interest while TikTok hopes to avoid a sale.

**Coach, Ralph Lauren Hit the Right Price for Affordable Luxury**

With ultrahigh-end brands taking price hikes too far, another tier of luxury is finding opportunity.

**Even Disney Is Worried About the High Cost of a Disney Vacation**

Price hikes have moved the Happiest Place on Earth out of reach for many Americans, alienating parkgoers and worrying executives. "It was really stressful for me thinking all the time about how much we were spending."

**Huge Pension Buys Super Micro, Palantir, and Target Stock. It Sold Chipotle.**

South Korea's National Pension Services, which managed $720 billion as of the end of 2023, disclosed the moves in a filing with the SEC.

**The Tequila Boom Is Over. The Tequila Price War Has Begun.**

Threat of tariffs adds uncertainty to brands like Casamigos and Patrón, which are struggling to retain drinkers.

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250209001494:0-news-highlights-top-company-news-of-the-day-sunday-at-11-pm-et/)
