---
title: "Lyft Eyes 2026 Robotaxi Launch Alongside Mobileye and Marubeni. The Stock Rises. — Barrons.com"
date: "2025-02-10 23:36:00"
summary: "By Mackenzie TatananniLyft stock was rising Monday after the company revealed that it would launch self-driving robotaxis in collaboration with Mobileye \"as soon as 2026.\"The ride-hailing company plans to bring fully autonomous robotaxis powered by the Mobileye Drive system to its app as early as next year. The rollout will..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Mackenzie Tatananni

Lyft stock was rising Monday after the company revealed that it would launch self-driving robotaxis in collaboration with Mobileye "as soon as 2026."

The ride-hailing company plans to bring fully autonomous robotaxis powered by the Mobileye Drive system to its app as early as next year. The rollout will begin in Dallas "with plans to scale thousands of vehicles to additional cities," a Lyft spokesperson told Barron's.

Marubeni, a Japanese conglomerate, will provide the robotaxi fleet. Riders will have the option to choose an autonomous-vehicle ride through the Lyft app and be picked up by a Marubeni-owned robotaxi, the spokesperson said.

Lyft first unveiled its collaboration with Mobileye in November 2024, with CEO David Risher announcing Monday that Marubeni also had joined the partnership.

"This is a big deal, since Marubeni is a major global player in fleet ownership," Risher said, noting that Marubeni manages more than 900,000 vehicles through its subsidiaries.

Lyft shares were up 4.3% to $14.78 on Monday. Mobileye climbed 18% to $18.96 after Bank of America analysts upgraded the stock to Neutral from Underperform.

Uber Technologies, Lyft's ride-sharing rival, unveiled a similar initiative in September. The company said it would expand its partnership with Waymo to bring robotaxis to Austin, Texas, and Atlanta, beginning in early 2025.

Lyft is set to report fourth-quarter earnings on Tuesday. Shares of Uber, the company's closest competitor, fell last Wednesday on soft guidance, though analysts pointed to growing opportunities in the AV market as a potential catalyst.

Uber Technologies was up 5.6% to $78.81.

Write to Mackenzie Tatananni at mackenzie.tatananni@barrons.com

This content was created by Barron's, which is operated by Dow Jones & Co. Barron's is published independently from Dow Jones Newswires and The Wall Street Journal.

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250210006908:0/)
