---
title: "Steel Stocks Surge as Trump Pledges More Tariffs. The Trade War Is Ramping Up. — Barrons.com"
date: "2025-02-10 18:37:00"
summary: "By Callum KeownPresident Donald Trump's trade war is escalating fast.Steel stocks surged early Monday after Trump promised to impose 25% tariffs on imports of steel and aluminum. The levies will apply to all countries exporting the metals to the U.S., he added, in comments made to reporters en route to..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Callum Keown

President Donald Trump's trade war is escalating fast.

Steel stocks surged early Monday after Trump promised to impose 25% tariffs on imports of steel and aluminum. The levies will apply to all countries exporting the metals to the U.S., he added, in comments made to reporters en route to Sunday's Super Bowl.

The tariffs would make it harder for overseas companies to sell lower priced steel on the U.S. market, supporting domestic producers. U.S. steel makers could also hike their own prices as a result.

Shares in Cleveland-Cliffs jumped 12% ahead of the open, Nucor Corp. rose 9.2%, United States Steel climbed 9% and Steel Dynamics was up 7%.

Shares in German steel producers Thyssenkrupp and Salzgitter opened sharply lower before paring losses in early European trading.

The President said he would announce the new tariffs on Monday, along with what he described as "reciprocal tariffs" on Tuesday or Wednesday on countries that have imposed levies on U.S.-made goods.

"Very simply it's if they charge us, we charge them," he told reporters on Air Force One on his way to New Orleans to watch the Philadelphia Eagles beat the Kansas City Chiefs.

China's retaliatory tariffs against the U.S. came into effect early Monday, ramping up trade tensions between the world's two largest economies. Beijing announced the levies last week, including a 15% tax on U.S. imports of coal and liquefied natural gas, in response to Trump's additional 10% tariffs on Chinese goods.

Even the postponed 25% tariffs on Mexico and Canada could come back into focus. Trump agreed to delay the taxes by 30 days last week but told Fox News Sunday that what the U.S.' neighbors had done to avoid the tariffs was "not good enough."

Write to Callum Keown at callum.keown@dowjones.com

This content was created by Barron's, which is operated by Dow Jones & Co. Barron's is published independently from Dow Jones Newswires and The Wall Street Journal.

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250210002672:0/)
