---
title: "Alkermes plc Reports Financial Results for the Fourth Quarter and Year Ended Dec. 31, 2024 and Provides Financial Expectations for 2025"
date: "2025-02-12 20:00:00"
summary: "(12:00 GMT) *Alkermes 4Q Net $146.5M &gt;ALKS(12:00 GMT) *Alkermes 4Q Rev $430M &gt;ALKS(12:00 GMT) Press Release: Alkermes plc Reports Financial Results for the Fourth Quarter and Year Ended Dec. 31, 2024 and Provides Financial Expectations for 2025Alkermes plc Reports Financial Results for the Fourth Quarter and Year Ended Dec. 31,..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

**(12:00 GMT)** \*Alkermes 4Q Net $146.5M >ALKS  
**(12:00 GMT)** \*Alkermes 4Q Rev $430M >ALKS  
**(12:00 GMT)** Press Release: Alkermes plc Reports Financial Results for the Fourth Quarter and Year Ended Dec. 31, 2024 and Provides Financial Expectations for 2025

Alkermes plc Reports Financial Results for the Fourth Quarter and Year Ended Dec. 31, 2024 and Provides Financial Expectations for 2025

PR Newswire

DUBLIN, Feb. 12, 2025

* Total Revenues of $1.56 Billion in 2024; Net Sales of Proprietary Products Increased Approximately 18% Year-Over-Year --
* GAAP Net Income from Continuing Operations of $372 Million and Diluted GAAP Earnings per Share from Continuing Operations of $2.20 for 2024 --
* ALKS 2680 Phase 2 Studies in Narcolepsy Type 1 and Type 2 Ongoing With Data Expected in H2 2025 --

DUBLIN, Feb. 12, 2025 /PRNewswire/ — Alkermes plc today reported financial results for the quarter and year ended Dec. 31, 2024 and provided financial expectations for 2025.

"2024 marked the completion of a multi-year effort to transition the business into a highly profitable, pure-play neuroscience company. We enter 2025 with a diversified portfolio of proprietary commercial products generating substantial profitability and an advancing development pipeline that represents a significant value creation opportunity in one of the most exciting potential new therapeutic categories in neuroscience," said Richard Pops, Chief Executive Officer of Alkermes. "Looking ahead, we are well positioned to deliver on our financial goals and advance the development programs for our portfolio of orexin 2 receptor agonists. This year, we have clear objectives for our pipeline as we complete the phase 2 studies for ALKS 2680 in narcolepsy, with data expected in the second half of the year, and prepare to initiate the ALKS 2680 phase 2 study in idiopathic hypersomnia and advance ALKS 4510 and ALKS 7290 into planned phase 1 studies in disease areas beyond central disorders of hypersomnolence. Each of these initiatives is an important element of our strategy to unlock what we believe is a multi-billion-dollar market opportunity for this category."

"2024 was Alkermes' strongest year of financial and operational performance to date. Financially, we generated more than $1 billion in revenue from our proprietary commercial product portfolio, delivered EBITDA from continuing operations of approximately $452 million, repurchased $200 million of the company's ordinary shares, retired approximately $290 million of debt and ended the year debt-free with approximately $825 million of cash and investments on the balance sheet. Operationally, we completed the sale of our manufacturing business in Ireland and made significant progress advancing our neuroscience development pipeline," said Blair Jackson, Chief Operating Officer of Alkermes. "We will continue to manage the business with a sharp focus on efficiency and profitability as we invest in the programs that we believe will drive the company's next phase of growth."

Key Financial Highlights

```
   
Revenues   
                           Three Months Ended      Twelve Months Ended   
(In millions)                 December 31,             December 31,   
                            2024        2023         2024        2023   
Total Revenues            $    430.0  $   377.5   $   1,557.6  $1,663.4*   
Total Proprietary Net   
 Sales                    $    307.7  $   242.0   $   1,083.5  $   920.0   
    VIVITROL(R)           $    134.1  $   102.4   $     457.3  $   400.4   
    ARISTADA(R)i          $     96.6  $    83.4   $     346.2  $   327.7   
    LYBALVI(R)            $     77.0  $    56.2   $     280.0  $   191.9   
   
Profitability   
                           Three Months Ended      Twelve Months Ended   
(In millions)                 December 31,             December 31,   
                            2024        2023         2024        2023*   
GAAP Net Income From   
 Continuing Operations    $    145.7  $   160.6   $     372.1  $   519.2   
GAAP Net Income (Loss)   
 From Discontinued   
 Operations               $      0.8  $  (47.8)   $     (5.1)  $ (163.4)   
GAAP Net Income           $    146.5  $   112.8   $     367.1  $   355.8   
   
Non-GAAP Net Income   
 From Continuing   
 Operations               $    173.4  $    81.8   $     494.4  $   396.5   
Non-GAAP Net Income   
 (Loss) From   
 Discontinued   
 Operations               $      0.8  $  (44.4)   $     (5.1)  $ (152.9)   
Non-GAAP Net Income       $    174.2  $    37.4   $     489.3  $   243.7   
   
EBITDA From Continuing   
 Operations               $    170.0  $    72.8   $     452.4  $   486.3   
EBITDA From   
 Discontinued   
 Operations               $      1.1  $  (40.5)   $     (5.8)  $ (162.5)   
EBITDA                    $    171.1  $    32.3   $     446.6  $   323.8   
 
```

\*As a result of the successful resolution of the arbitration with Janssen Pharmaceutica N.V., the twelve months ended December 31, 2023 included approximately $195.4 million of back royalties (and related interest) related to U.S. net sales of long-acting INVEGA(R) products that would ordinarily have been recognized in prior periods.

Revenue Highlights

LYBALVI

* Revenues for the fourth quarter were $77.0 million.
* Fourth quarter revenues and total prescriptions grew 37% and 30%, respectively, compared to the fourth quarter of 2023.
* During the quarter, the company recorded LYBALVI(R) revenue of approximately $4 million related to year-end inventory fluctuations.

ARISTADA(i)

* Revenues for the fourth quarter were $96.6 million.
* Fourth quarter revenues grew 16% compared to the fourth quarter of 2023.
* During the quarter, the company recorded ARISTADA(R) revenue of approximately $9 million related to year-end inventory fluctuations and gross-to-net favorability, primarily driven by Medicaid utilization adjustments.

VIVITROL

* Revenues for the fourth quarter were $134.1 million.
* Fourth quarter revenues grew 31% compared to the fourth quarter of 2023.
* During the quarter, the company recorded VIVITROL(R) revenue of approximately $23 million related to year-end inventory fluctuations and gross-to-net favorability, primarily driven by Medicaid utilization adjustments.

Manufacturing & Royalty Revenues

* Royalty revenues from XEPLION(R), INVEGA TRINZA(R)/TREVICTA(R) and INVEGA HAFYERA(R)/BYANNLI(R) for the fourth quarter were $36.5 million.
* VUMERITY(R) manufacturing and royalty revenues for the fourth quarter were $35.0 million.
* FAMPYRA(R) manufacturing and royalty revenues for the fourth quarter were $22.9 million. The company does not expect to record any FAMPYRA revenue going forward.
* RISPERDAL CONSTA(R) manufacturing revenues for the fourth quarter were $14.7 million.

Key Operating Expenses

Please see Note 1 below for details regarding discontinued operations.

```
   
                             Three Months Ended       Twelve Months Ended   
(In millions)                   December 31,              December 31,   
                               2024        2023        2024         2023   
R&D Expense -- Continuing   
 Operations                 $      58.2  $   73.9   $     245.3   $    270.8   
R&D Expense --   
 Discontinued Operations    $     (1.1)  $   21.5   $       5.8   $    116.2   
   
SG&A Expense --   
 Continuing Operations      $     147.0  $  169.8   $     645.2   $    689.8   
SG&A Expense --   
 Discontinued Operations    $         -  $   19.4   $         -   $     48.6   
 
```

Balance Sheet

* At Dec. 31, 2024, the company recorded cash, cash equivalents and total investments of $824.8 million, compared to $813.4 million at Dec. 31, 2023.
* In December 2024, the company prepaid and retired in full all of its outstanding long-term debt in the amount of approximately $290 million.

Financial Expectations for 2025

All line items are according to GAAP, except as otherwise noted.

```
   
In millions               2025 Expectations   
   
Total Revenues            $1,340 -- $1,430   
 VIVITROL Net Sales         $440 -- $460   
 ARISTADA(i) Net Sales      $335 -- $355   
 LYBALVI Net Sales          $320 -- $340   
Cost of Goods Sold          $185 -- $205   
R&D Expenses                $305 -- $335   
SG&A Expenses               $655 -- $685   
GAAP Net Income (a)         $175 -- $205   
EBITDA                      $215 -- $245   
Adjusted EBITDA             $310 -- $340   
Effective Tax Rate              17%   
   
   
   
(a) Expected 2025 weighted average basic share count of approximately 165.5   
million shares outstanding and a weighted average diluted share count of   
approximately 169.5 million shares outstanding.   
 
```

Notes and Explanations

1. The company determined that upon the separation of its former oncology business, completed on Nov. 15, 2023, the oncology business met the criteria for discontinued operations in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board Accounting Standards Codification 205, Discontinued Operations. Accordingly, the accompanying selected financial information has been updated to present the results of the oncology business as discontinued operations for the three and twelve months ended Dec. 31, 2023.

Conference Call

Alkermes will host a conference call and webcast presentation with accompanying slides at 8:00 a.m. EST (1:00 p.m. GMT) on Wednesday, Feb. 12, 2025, to discuss these financial results and provide an update on the company. The webcast may be accessed on the Investors section of Alkermes' website at www.alkermes.com. The conference call may be accessed by dialing +1 877 407 2988 for U.S. callers and +1 201 389 0923 for international callers. In addition, a replay of the conference call may be accessed by visiting Alkermes' website.

About Alkermes plc Alkermes plc is a global biopharmaceutical company that seeks to develop innovative medicines in the field of neuroscience. The company has a portfolio of proprietary commercial products for the treatment of alcohol dependence, opioid dependence, schizophrenia and bipolar I disorder, and a pipeline of clinical and preclinical candidates in development for neurological disorders, including narcolepsy and idiopathic hypersomnia. Headquartered in Ireland, Alkermes also has a corporate office and research and development center in Massachusetts and a manufacturing facility in Ohio. For more information, please visit Alkermes' website at www.alkermes.com.

Non-GAAP Financial Measures

This press release includes information about certain financial measures that are not prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the U.S. (GAAP), including non-GAAP net income, EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA. These non-GAAP measures are not based on any standardized methodology prescribed by GAAP and are not necessarily comparable to similar measures presented by other companies.

Non-GAAP net income adjusts for certain one-time and non-cash charges by excluding from GAAP results: share-based compensation expense; amortization; depreciation; non-cash net interest expense; change in the fair value of contingent consideration; certain other one-time or non-cash items; and the income tax effect of these reconciling items. EBITDA represents earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization. Adjusted EBITDA excludes share-based compensation expense in addition to the components of EBITDA from earnings.

The company's management and board of directors utilize these non-GAAP financial measures to evaluate the company's performance. The company provides these non-GAAP financial measures of the company's performance to investors because management believes that these non-GAAP financial measures, when viewed with the company's results under GAAP and the accompanying reconciliations, are useful in identifying underlying trends in ongoing operations. However, non-GAAP net income, EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA are not measures of financial performance under GAAP and, accordingly, should not be considered as alternatives to GAAP measures as indicators of operating performance. Further, non-GAAP net income, EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA should not be considered measures of the company's liquidity.

A reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP financial measures has been provided in the tables included in this press release.

Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements

Certain statements set forth in this press release constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, as amended, including, but not limited to, statements concerning: the company's expectations concerning its future financial and operating performance, business plans or prospects, including expected drivers of growth, value creation and profitability; and the company's expectations regarding development plans, activities and timelines for, and the potential therapeutic and commercial value of, ALKS 2680 and the company's other orexin portfolio candidates. The company cautions that forward-looking statements are inherently uncertain. The forward-looking statements are neither promises nor guarantees and they are necessarily subject to a high degree of uncertainty and risk. Actual performance and results may differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements due to various risks and uncertainties. These risks and uncertainties include, among others: whether the company is able to achieve its financial expectations, including those related to profitability; clinical development activities may not be completed on time or at all; the results of the company's development activities may not be positive, or predictive of final results from such activities, results of future development activities or real-world results; the unfavorable outcome of arbitration, litigation, or other proceedings or disputes related to the company's products or products using the company's proprietary technologies; the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) or regulatory authorities outside the U.S. may make adverse decisions regarding the company's products; the company and its licensees may not be able to continue to successfully commercialize their products or support revenue growth from such products; there may be a reduction in payment rate or reimbursement for the company's products or an increase in the company's financial obligations to government payers; the company's products may prove difficult to manufacture, be precluded from commercialization by the proprietary rights of third parties, or have unintended side effects, adverse reactions or incidents of misuse; and those risks and uncertainties described under the heading "Risk Factors" in the company's most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K and in subsequent filings made by the company with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), which are available on the SEC's website at www.sec.gov. Existing and prospective investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date hereof. Except as required by law, the company disclaims any intention or responsibility for updating or revising any forward-looking statements contained in this press release.

VIVITROL(R) is a registered trademark of Alkermes, Inc.; ARISTADA(R) , ARISTADA INITIO(R) and LYBALVI(R) are registered trademarks of Alkermes Pharma Ireland Limited, used by Alkermes, Inc. under license; BYANNLI(R) , INVEGA(R) , INVEGA HAFYERA(R) , INVEGA TRINZA(R) , RISPERDAL CONSTA(R) , TREVICTA(R) and XEPLION(R) are registered trademarks of Johnson & Johnson or its affiliated companies; FAMPYRA(TM) is a trademark of Merz Pharmaceuticals, LLC; and VUMERITY(R) is a registered trademark of Biogen MA Inc., used by Alkermes under license.

```
   
   
(i) The term "ARISTADA" as used in this press release refers to ARISTADA and   
ARISTADA INITIO(R) , unless the context indicates otherwise.   
   
   
                       Alkermes plc and Subsidiaries   
                 Selected Financial Information (Unaudited)   
   
Condensed   
Consolidated   
Statements of   
Operations -   
GAAP                   Three Months Ended            Three Months Ended   
(In thousands,   
except per   
share data)            December 31, 2024             December 31, 2023   
Revenues:   
Product sales,   
 net                 $                 307,726     $                 241,972   
Manufacturing   
 and royalty   
 revenues                              122,260                       135,500   
Research and   
 development   
 revenue                                    --                             3   
 Total Revenues                        429,986                       377,475   
                  ----------------------------  ----------------------------   
Expenses:   
Cost of goods   
 manufactured   
 and sold                               62,116                        70,126   
Research and   
 development                            58,174                        73,933   
Selling, general   
 and   
 administrative                        146,994                       169,789   
Amortization of   
 acquired   
 intangible   
 assets                                     14                         8,996   
 Total Expenses                        267,298                       322,844   
                  ----------------------------  ----------------------------   
Operating Income                       162,688                        54,631   
                  ----------------------------  ----------------------------   
Other Income,   
net:   
Interest income                         11,400                         9,749   
Interest expense                       (4,648)                       (6,054)   
Other income   
 (expense), net                            449                          (10)   
 Total Other   
  Income, net                            7,201                         3,685   
                  ----------------------------  ----------------------------   
Income Before   
 Income Taxes                          169,889                        58,316   
                  ----------------------------  ----------------------------   
Income Tax   
 Provision   
 (Benefit)                              24,152                     (102,236)   
                  ----------------------------  ----------------------------   
Net Income From   
 Continuing   
 Operations                            145,737                       160,552   
                  ----------------------------  ----------------------------   
Income (Loss)   
 From   
 Discontinued   
 Operations --   
 Net of Tax                                766                      (47,773)   
Net Income --   
 GAAP                $                 146,503     $                 112,779   
                  ============================  ============================   
   
GAAP Earnings   
(Loss) Per   
Ordinary Share   
- Basic:   
From continuing   
 operations       $                       0.90  $                       0.96   
From   
 discontinued   
 operations       $                       0.00  $                     (0.29)   
From net income   $                       0.90  $                       0.68   
   
GAAP Earnings   
(Loss) Per   
Ordinary Share   
- Diluted:   
From continuing   
 operations       $                       0.88  $                       0.94   
From   
 discontinued   
 operations       $                       0.00  $                     (0.28)   
From net income   $                       0.88  $                       0.66   
   
Weighted   
Average Number   
of Ordinary   
Shares   
Outstanding:   
Basic -- GAAP   
 and Non-GAAP                          161,956                       166,898   
Diluted -- GAAP   
 and Non-GAAP                          166,554                       170,138   
   
   
Condensed   
Consolidated   
Statements of   
Operations -   
GAAP   
(Continued)            Three Months Ended            Three Months Ended   
(In thousands,   
except per   
share data)            December 31, 2024             December 31, 2023   
An itemized   
reconciliation   
between net   
income from   
continuing   
operations on a   
GAAP basis and   
EBITDA is as   
follows:   
Net Income from   
 Continuing   
 Operations          $                 145,737     $                 160,552   
Adjustments:   
Depreciation   
 expense                                 6,833                         9,225   
Amortization   
 expense                                    14                         8,996   
Interest income                       (11,400)                       (9,749)   
Interest expense                         4,648                         6,054   
Income tax   
 provision   
 (benefit)                              24,152                     (102,236)   
EBITDA from   
 Continuing   
 Operations                            169,984                        72,842   
                  ----------------------------  ----------------------------   
EBITDA from   
 Discontinued   
 Operations                              1,120                      (40,537)   
EBITDA               $                 171,104    $                   32,305   
                  ============================  ============================   
   
An itemized reconciliation between net income from continuing operations on   
a GAAP basis and non-GAAP net income is as follows:   
Net Income from   
 Continuing   
 Operations          $                 145,737     $                 160,552   
Adjustments:   
Share-based   
 compensation   
 expense                                20,747                        22,776   
Depreciation   
 expense                                 6,833                         9,225   
Amortization   
 expense                                    14                         8,996   
Loss on debt   
extinguishment                             719                            --   
Income tax   
 effect related   
 to reconciling   
 items                                   (629)                        22,011   
Separation   
 expense                                    --                        19,084   
Non-cash net   
 interest   
 expense                                    --                           115   
Deferred tax   
 valuation   
 release                                    --                     (160,953)   
Non-GAAP Net   
 Income from   
 Continuing   
 Operations                            173,421                        81,806   
                  ----------------------------  ----------------------------   
Non-GAAP Net   
 Income (Loss)   
 from   
 Discontinued   
 Operations                                766                      (44,383)   
Non-GAAP Net   
 Income              $                 174,187    $                   37,423   
                  ============================  ============================   
   
Non-GAAP diluted   
 earnings per   
 ordinary share   
 from continuing   
 operations       $                       1.04  $                       0.48   
Non-GAAP diluted   
 loss per   
 ordinary share   
 from   
 discontinued   
 operations       $                       0.00  $                     (0.26)   
Non-GAAP diluted   
 earnings per   
 ordinary share   
 from net   
 income           $                       1.05  $                       0.22   
   
   
                          Alkermes plc and Subsidiaries   
                    Selected Financial Information (Unaudited)   
   
Condensed   
Consolidated   
Statements of   
Operations - GAAP                Year Ended                    Year Ended   
(In thousands, except   
per share data)              December 31, 2024             December 31, 2023   
Revenues:   
Product sales, net          $              1,083,534     $                 919,998   
Manufacturing and   
 royalty revenues                            474,095                       743,388   
Research and   
 development revenue                               3                            19   
 Total Revenues                            1,557,632                     1,663,405   
                        ----------------------------  ----------------------------   
Expenses:   
Cost of goods   
 manufactured and   
 sold                                        245,331                       253,037   
Research and   
 development                                 245,326                       270,806   
Selling, general and   
 administrative                              645,238                       689,751   
Amortization of   
 acquired intangible   
 assets                                        1,101                        35,689   
 Total Expenses                            1,136,996                     1,249,283   
                        ----------------------------  ----------------------------   
Operating Income                             420,636                       414,122   
                        ----------------------------  ----------------------------   
Other Income, net:   
 Interest income                              42,450                        30,854   
 Interest expense                           (22,578)                      (23,032)   
 Other income   
  (expense), net                               3,242                         (425)   
 Total Other Income,   
  net                                         23,114                         7,397   
                        ----------------------------  ----------------------------   
Income Before Income   
 Taxes                                       443,750                       421,519   
Income Tax Provision   
 (Benefit)                                    71,612                      (97,638)   
                        ----------------------------  ----------------------------   
Net Income From   
 Continuing   
 Operations                                  372,138                       519,157   
                        ----------------------------  ----------------------------   
Loss From Discontinued   
 Operations -- Net of   
 Tax                                         (5,068)                     (163,400)   
Net Income -- GAAP         $                 367,070     $                 355,757   
                        ============================  ============================   
   
GAAP Earnings (Loss)   
Per Ordinary Share -   
Basic:   
From continuing   
 operations             $                       2.25  $                       3.12   
From discontinued   
 operations             $                     (0.03)  $                     (0.98)   
From net income         $                       2.22  $                       2.14   
   
GAAP Earnings (Loss)   
Per Ordinary Share -   
Diluted:   
From continuing   
 operations             $                       2.20  $                       3.06   
From discontinued   
 operations             $                     (0.03)  $                     (0.96)   
From net income         $                       2.17  $                       2.10   
   
Weighted Average   
Number of Ordinary   
Shares Outstanding:   
Basic -- GAAP and   
 Non-GAAP                                    165,392                       166,223   
Diluted -- GAAP and   
 Non-GAAP                                    169,198                       169,730   
   
   
Condensed   
Consolidated   
Statements of   
Operations - GAAP   
(Continued)                      Year Ended                    Year Ended   
(In thousands, except   
per share data)              December 31, 2024             December 31, 2023   
An itemized   
reconciliation   
between net income   
from continuing   
operations on a GAAP   
basis and EBITDA is   
as follows:   
Net Income from   
 Continuing   
 Operations                $                 372,138     $                 519,157   
Adjustments:   
Depreciation expense                          27,432                        36,921   
Amortization expense                           1,101                        35,689   
Interest income                             (42,450)                      (30,854)   
Interest expense                              22,578                        23,032   
Income tax provision   
 (benefit)                                    71,612                      (97,638)   
EBITDA from Continuing   
 Operations                                  452,411                       486,307   
                        ----------------------------  ----------------------------   
EBITDA from   
 Discontinued   
 Operations                                  (5,790)                     (162,484)   
EBITDA                     $                 446,621     $                 323,823   
                        ============================  ============================   
   
An itemized reconciliation between net income from continuing operations on a GAAP   
basis and non-GAAP net income is as follows:   
Net Income from   
 Continuing   
 Operations                $                 372,138     $                 519,157   
Adjustments:   
Share-based   
 compensation expense                         96,636                        92,719   
Depreciation expense                          27,432                        36,921   
Amortization expense                           1,101                        35,689   
Separation expense                             1,446                        38,364   
Loss on debt   
extinguishment                                   719                            --   
Gain on sale of   
Athlone manufacturing   
facility                                     (1,462)                            --   
Income tax effect   
 related to   
 reconciling items                           (3,945)                        25,343   
Deferred tax valuation   
 release                                          --                     (160,953)   
Restructuring expense                             --                         5,938   
Final award in the   
 Janssen arbitration   
 (2022 back royalties   
 and interest)                                    --                     (197,092)   
Non-cash net interest   
 expense                                         342                           461   
Non-GAAP Net Income   
 from Continuing   
 Operations                                  494,407                       396,547   
                        ----------------------------  ----------------------------   
Non-GAAP Net Loss from   
 Discontinued   
 Operations                                  (5,068)                     (152,894)   
Non-GAAP Net Income        $                 489,339     $                 243,653   
                        ============================  ============================   
   
Non-GAAP diluted   
 earnings per ordinary   
 share from continuing   
 operations             $                       2.92  $                       2.34   
Non-GAAP diluted loss   
 per ordinary share   
 from discontinued   
 operations             $                     (0.03)  $                     (0.90)   
Non-GAAP diluted   
 earnings per ordinary   
 share from net   
 income                 $                       2.89  $                       1.44   
   
   
                                Alkermes plc and Subsidiaries   
                          Selected Financial Information (Unaudited)   
   
Condensed   
Consolidated   
Balance Sheets                 December 31,                           December 31,   
(In thousands)                     2024                                   2023   
---------------   --------------------------------------  ------------------------------------   
Cash, cash   
 equivalents and   
 total   
 investments          $                          824,816    $                          813,378   
Receivables                                      389,733                               332,477   
Inventory                                        182,887                               186,406   
Contract assets                                    4,990                                   706   
Prepaid expenses   
 and other   
 current assets                                   86,077                                98,166   
Property, plant   
 and equipment,   
 net                                             227,564                               226,943   
Intangible   
 assets, net and   
 goodwill                                         83,917                                85,018   
Assets held for   
 sale                                                 --                                94,260   
Deferred tax   
 assets                                          154,835                               195,888   
Other assets                                     100,748                               102,981   
Total Assets           $                       2,055,567     $                       2,136,223   
                  --------------------------------------  ------------------------------------   
Long-term debt   
 -- current   
 portion          $                                   --  $                              3,000   
Other current   
 liabilities                                     465,199                               512,678   
Long-term debt                                        --                               287,730   
Liabilities from   
 discontinued   
 operations                                           --                                 4,542   
Other long-term   
 liabilities                                     125,391                               125,587   
Total   
 shareholders'   
 equity                                        1,464,977                             1,202,686   
Total   
 Liabilities and   
 Shareholders'   
 Equity                $                       2,055,567     $                       2,136,223   
                  --------------------------------------  ------------------------------------   
   
Ordinary shares   
 outstanding (in   
 thousands)                                      162,177                               166,980   
   
This selected financial information should be read in conjunction with the consolidated   
financial statements and notes thereto included in Alkermes plc's Annual Report on Form 10-K   
for the year ended December 31, 2024, which the company intends to file in February 2025.   
   
   
                                    Alkermes plc and Subsidiaries   
                             Amounts Included in Discontinued Operations   
   
   
                   Three Months    Three Months     Three Months      Three Months          Year   
                       Ended           Ended            Ended             Ended             Ended   
                     March 31,       June 30,       September 30,      December 31,     December 31,   
(In thousands)         2024            2024             2024               2024             2024   
Cost of goods   
manufactured   
and sold          $           --  $           --  $             --   $             --   $           -   
Research and   
 development               2,516           3,913               481            (1,120)           5,790   
Selling,   
general and   
administrative                --              --                --                 --               -   
Income tax   
 (benefit)   
 provision                 (396)           (613)              (67)                354           (722)   
----------------  --------------  --------------  ----------------  -----------------   
(Income) Loss   
 from   
 discontinued   
 operations, net   
 of tax             $      2,120    $      3,300   $           414    $         (766)    $      5,068   
----------------  --------------  --------------  ----------------  -----------------  --------------   
   
   
                   Three Months    Three Months     Three Months      Three Months          Year   
                       Ended           Ended            Ended             Ended             Ended   
                     March 31,       June 30,       September 30,      December 31,     December 31,   
(In thousands)         2023            2023             2023               2023             2023   
Cost of goods   
 manufactured   
 and sold         $           11  $           11  $             11  $               6  $           39   
Research and   
 development              29,867          32,563            32,262             21,485         116,177   
Selling, general   
 and   
 administrative            6,644           9,502            13,073             19,368          48,587   
Income tax   
 (benefit)   
 provision               (6,727)            (40)           (1,550)              6,914         (1,403)   
----------------  --------------  --------------  ----------------  -----------------   
Loss from   
 discontinued   
 operations, net   
 of tax              $    29,795     $    42,036     $      43,796      $      47,773      $  163,400   
                  --------------  --------------  ----------------  -----------------  --------------   
   
   
                                                    Alkermes plc and Subsidiaries   
                                              Revenues for Calendar Year 2024 and 2023   
   
                       Three Months           Three Months            Three Months           Three Months               Year   
                           Ended                  Ended                   Ended                  Ended                  Ended   
                         March 31,               June 30,             September 30,           December 31,           December 31,   
(In thousands)             2024                    2024                   2024                    2024                   2024   
Revenues:   
VIVITROL          $               97,659  $             111,873   $             113,650  $             134,133  $             457,315   
ARISTADA                          78,870                 86,049                  84,652                 96,616                346,187   
LYBALVI                           57,007                 71,351                  74,697                 76,977                280,032   
----------------  ----------------------  ---------------------  ----------------------  ---------------------  ---------------------   
Total   
 Proprietary   
 Sales                           233,536                269,273                 272,999                307,726              1,083,534   
   
PARTNERED   
 LONG-ACTING   
 ANTIPSYCHOTICS   
 (1)                              65,391                 82,297                  60,876                 51,267                259,831   
VUMERITY                          31,254                 35,234                  32,574                 34,985                134,047   
----------------  ----------------------  ---------------------  ----------------------  ---------------------  ---------------------   
Key Commercial   
 Product   
 Revenues                        330,181                386,804                 366,449                393,978              1,477,412   
   
Legacy Product   
 Revenues                         20,188                 12,327                  11,694                 36,008                 80,217   
Research and   
 Development   
 Revenues                              3                     --                      --                     --                      3   
----------------  ----------------------  ---------------------  ----------------------  ---------------------  ---------------------   
Total Revenues     $             350,372  $             399,131   $             378,143  $             429,986   $          1,557,632   
================  ======================  =====================  ======================  =====================  =====================   
   
   
   
                       Three Months           Three Months            Three Months           Three Months               Year   
                           Ended                  Ended                   Ended                  Ended                  Ended   
                         March 31,               June 30,             September 30,           December 31,           December 31,   
(In thousands)             2023                    2023                   2023                    2023                   2023   
Revenues:   
VIVITROL          $               96,659  $             102,070  $               99,305  $             102,385  $             400,419   
ARISTADA                          80,077                 82,410                  81,834                 83,369                327,690   
LYBALVI                           37,991                 46,997                  50,683                 56,218                191,889   
----------------  ----------------------  ---------------------  ----------------------  ---------------------  ---------------------   
Total   
 Proprietary   
 Sales                           214,727                231,477                 231,822                241,972                919,998   
   
PARTNERED   
 LONG-ACTING   
 ANTIPSYCHOTICS   
 (1)                              24,543                326,380                  90,993                 81,461                523,377   
VUMERITY                          28,874                 32,295                  34,561                 33,596                129,326   
----------------  ----------------------  ---------------------  ----------------------  ---------------------  ---------------------   
Key Commercial   
 Product   
 Revenues                        268,144                590,152                 357,376                357,029              1,572,701   
   
Legacy Product   
 Revenues                         19,445                 27,238                  23,559                 20,443                 90,685   
Research and   
 Development   
 Revenues                              6                      7                       3                      3                     19   
----------------  ----------------------  ---------------------  ----------------------  ---------------------  ---------------------   
Total Revenues     $             287,595  $             617,397   $             380,938  $             377,475   $          1,663,405   
================  ======================  =====================  ======================  =====================  =====================   
   
   
(1) - Includes RISPERDAL CONSTA, INVEGA SUSTENNA/XEPLION, INVEGA TRINZA/TREVICTA and INVEGA HAFYERA/BYANNLI.   
   
   
   
                       Alkermes plc and Subsidiaries   
            2025 Guidance -- GAAP to EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA   
   
An itemized reconciliation between projected net income on a GAAP basis,   
EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA is as follows:   
   
(In millions)                                                Amount   
-------------------------------------------------   ------------------------   
Projected Net Income -- GAAP                                $          190.0   
  Adjustments:   
Interest income                                                       (30.0)   
Depreciation and amortization expense                                   30.0   
Provision for income taxes                                              40.0   
Projected EBITDA                                            $          230.0   
                                                    ------------------------   
Share-based compensation expense                                        95.0   
Projected Adjusted EBITDA                                   $          325.0   
                                                    ========================   
   
   
 
```

Alkermes Contacts:

For Investors: Sandy Coombs +1 781 609 6377

For Media: Katie Joyce +1 781 249 8927

View original content to download multimedia:https://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/alkermes-plc-reports-financial-results-for-the-fourth-quarter-and-year-ended-dec-31-2024-and-provides-financial-expectations-for-2025-302373897.html

SOURCE Alkermes plc

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250212006023:0/)
