---
title: "News Highlights: Top Company News of the Day - Wednesday at 3 PM ET"
date: "2025-02-13 04:15:00"
summary: "Chevron to Lay Off Up to 20% of Workers. Why the Oil Industry Is Slimming Down.The company's move is \"positioning us to accelerate\" cash-generation, its vice chairman tells Barron's.Zillow's Rentals Business Buoys Prospects, Even as Outlook Hits SharesZillow's outlook has taken a hit from a persistently challenging housing market, but..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

**Chevron to Lay Off Up to 20% of Workers. Why the Oil Industry Is Slimming Down.**

The company's move is "positioning us to accelerate" cash-generation, its vice chairman tells Barron's.

**Zillow's Rentals Business Buoys Prospects, Even as Outlook Hits Shares**

Zillow's outlook has taken a hit from a persistently challenging housing market, but its longer-term prospects remain promising, in part thanks to an expanding rentals business, analysts say.

**Micron Stock Falls as News on Outlook Disappoints**

The maker of computer memory said industry conditions are expected to hurt gross margins in the third quarter.

**Ray-Ban Maker EssilorLuxottica Logs Higher Sales Amid North America, China Growth**

In North America, fourth-quarter revenue rose 7.8%, while revenue in China rose about 50%, the company said.

**CVS Health Stock Jumps on Earnings Beat and Solid Guidance. 'Phew!' Says One Analyst.**

CVS Health rises after fourth-quarter adjusted earnings easily top analysts' estimates.

**Kraft Heinz wraps up 'challenging' year with a profit warning as stock drops**

The company said it's "committed to making the necessary investments to drive top-line improvement, while remaining disciplined."

**Sean 'Diddy' Combs Sues NBCUniversal Over Documentary**

The lawsuit, filed in New York on Wednesday, alleges that "Diddy: The Making of a Bad Boy" contains defamatory statements against the hip-hop mogul.

**Arena Group Removes Sara Silverstein as CEO After Less Than a Year**

The selection of Paul Edmondson as interim successor comes as the board believes "a new entrepreneurial operational strategy is necessary to execute its exciting growth plan," the company said.

**Siemens Energy Net Profit Falls; Revenue, Order Backlog Rise**

The Munich-based company said net profit fell but revenue rose, as its order backlog continued to increase.

**Tesla Can't Afford Another Twitter-Size Distraction**

Elon Musk's bid for OpenAI and his divisive political image raise new risks for Tesla's expensive stock.

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250212011679:0-news-highlights-top-company-news-of-the-day-wednesday-at-3-pm-et/)
