---
title: "Global Equities Roundup: Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-11 16:19:00"
summary: "The latest Market Talks covering Equities. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.0819 GMT - BP's forward-looking guidance is a little soft compared with market expectations, RBC Capital Markets analysts Biraj Borkhataria and Adnan Dhanani write. The British energy major expects first-quarter hydrocarbon production to fall by around..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The latest Market Talks covering Equities. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.

0819 GMT - BP's forward-looking guidance is a little soft compared with market expectations, RBC Capital Markets analysts Biraj Borkhataria and Adnan Dhanani write. The British energy major expects first-quarter hydrocarbon production to fall by around 90,000 oil equivalent barrels a day due to divestments. However, investors had expected a production increase, they write. BP's 2025 corporate cost guidance of around $1 billion is roughly $200 million higher than consensus, they add. Shares trade up 0.4% at 467 pence. (adam.whittaker@wsj.com)

0818 GMT - Mediobanca's new targets for 2026 imply earnings per share that are more than 4% higher than current consensus expectations, Jefferies says in a research note after the Italian bank's quarterly results. Revenue is now expected at 4 billion euros, against 3.8 billion euros previously, with over 1.4 billion euros in net profit. The guidance was outlined alongside its results for the fourth quarter of 2024, in which it posted a profit beat thanks to strong fees in its corporate and investment bank and backed its earnings per share growth guidance for 2025. Shares in Mediobanca, which recently rejected a takeover offer from peer Monte dei Paschi, rose 2% at market open. (elena.vardon@wsj.com)

0808 GMT - Dunelm Group reported modest growth in both revenue and pretax profit in the first half, although that was driven by volumes and market-share gains, Barclays analysts Richard Taylor and Sharanya Gajapathy say in a note. While the soft-furnishing retailer's revenue rise was modest, the volume increase and stable prices are positive news and considered sustainable given that the sector is increasing prices to defend profits, they say. Added to that, Dunelm declared a pleasing special dividend of 35 pence, in line with prior year, they say. Despite the company noting a 9 million pounds inflationary headwind, it continued to invest on manufacturing capabilities, they add. (michael.susin@wsj.com)

0808 GMT - DSM-Firmenich will likely communicate on capital returns in advance of further divestment, Jefferies analysts write in a note. The sale of its stake in the Feed Enzymes Alliance to its partner Novonesis brings focus to its balance sheet, the analysts say. "The combination of this divestment and the previously announced Robertet sale represents around 1.8 billion euros of net proceeds from divestment," they add. This suggests that the Dutch nutrition, health and bioscience company could communicate on capital returns even before the finalized remaining Animal Nutrition and Health sale. Shares rise 3.8% to 99.48 euros. (najat.kantouar@wsj.com)

0808 GMT - Ams-Osram's guidance for the first quarter points to a weaker performance, as previously flagged, but it isn't worse than feared, Vontobel's Mark Diethelm says in a research note. The European electronics company expects first-quarter revenue of between 750 million and 850 million euros, with an adjusted Ebitda margin of 14.5% to 17.5%. Ams-Osram will continue to face challenges in the first half of 2025 due to weak demand and continued inventory adjustments, the analyst says. However, it said it expects a meaningfully stronger second half of the year. "Overall, the message is consistent and we do not expect material consensus estimate adjustments," the analyst says. Shares jump 14%. (adria.calatayud@wsj.com)

0804 GMT - M.J. Gleeson had a firm first half of its financial year and a robust start to the second half, RBC Europe analysts Anthony Codling and Oliver Dyson said. The London-listed low-cost housebuilder and land promoter reiterated its 2025 guidance on Tuesday and is on track to deliver on its expectations over the medium term, the analysts say. "The pace is good and Gleeson has plenty of spring in its step," they write. (cristina.gallardo@wsj.com)

0803 GMT - Bitcoin rises following a rally in U.S. tech stocks overnight, XTB's Kathleen Brooks says in a note. Tech stocks are recovering from a recent selloff led by concerns that Chinese startup DeepSeek's new artificial intelligence could threaten America's dominance in the sector. "Big money is betting that tech will resume its leadership of the U.S. stock market," Brooks says. This suggests stocks could remain resilient to President Trump's tariff threats and his stance on trade policy won't have a negative effect on inflation or global growth. Bitcoin's gains is another sign it is moving closely with U.S. tech stocks. Bitcoin rises 0.9% to $98,303, according to LSEG. (renae.dyer@wsj.com)

0759 GMT - BYD's new driving-assistance system is notable as it brings advanced autonomous-driving technology to the masses with a price tag of under 100,000 yuan, Bernstein analysts write in a note. One key challenge that had weighed on BYD's stock previously was its laggard status in driving-assistance tech, they note. BYD's launch demonstrates the company's ability to catch up with competitors, they say. BYD has outpaced rivals in investing in R&D, and boasts a considerably bigger research team of more than 110,000 engineers, including more than 5,000 dedicated to its advanced driver-assistance system, Bernstein says. The asset management firm maintains a buy rating on the stock with a target price of HK$350.00. Shares are last at HK$328.80. (jiahui.huang@wsj.com; @ivy\_jiahuihuang)

0758 GMT - BYD'S aggressive approach to install its new smart driving system directly challenges Tesla's full self-driving system, which is scheduled for launch in China, DBS says in a research note. On Monday, the Chinese auto maker introduced its advanced driver-assistance system across its vehicle models under its brands Ocean, Dynasty, Denza and Yangwang. BYD's emphasis on affordability and widespread adoption of the smart driving features is "a key differentiator compared to peers," the note says. Given that the mass market accounts for a significant proportion of the auto market, BYD is ahead of its peers in the autonomous driving assistance field, it adds. Shares were last at HK$328.40. (sherry.qin@wsj.com)

0752 GMT - UniCredit's outlook for the years ahead and its better-than-expected results shouldn't disappoint the market, Keefe, Bruyette & Woods says in a research note after the Italian bank's fourth-quarter print. The earnings beat was solid due to better net interest income, while some items were weaker than estimates, analysts Hugo Cruz and Ben Maher write. "We think that is mainly "front loading" ahead of 2025," they say, referring to expenses taken during the end of last year. The net profit, net revenue and return on tangible equity guidance for 2025 surpasses current consensus estimates for the year, they add. (elena.vardon@wsj.com)

0747 GMT - Kering's results should reassure investors that trends are modestly improving, RBC Capital Markets analysts Piral Dadhania and Richard Chamberlain say in a note. The French luxury group reported 4Q revenue of 4.39 billion euros, down 12% on year. Gucci reported a 24% decline in revenue, but retail sales improved compared with 3Q. Revenue acceleration at Gucci was less pronounced compared with peers, which suggests the relative performance gap hasn't yet closed, the analysts say. However, with the new brand CEO Stefano Cantino apparently willing to make bold changes, including changing creative director, the worst could be left behind, they say. "The timing for a potential reset remains unclear at this stage." Shares are down nearly 41% over the past 12 months. (andrea.figueras@wsj.com)

0746 GMT - Nordic markets are seen opening slightly lower, with IG calling the OMXS30 down 0.2% at around 2653. Stock markets defied new steel tariffs yesterday as European equity markets rose to new all-time highs, while U.S. stocks also moved higher, SEB analysts say in a note. President Trump's planned 25% tariffs on steel and aluminum will cover all trading partners, include processed steel products, and will enter into force on March 4. Chinese stock markets are under moderate pressure today and both U.S. and European stock market futures are pointing slightly down. The highlight of the day is testimony by Fed Chair Jerome Powell in Congress. The OMXS30 closed at 2658.29, OMXN40 at 2608.05 and OBX at 1401.79. (dominic.chopping@wsj.com)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250211001585:0/)
