---
title: "B&G Foods Announces Date of Fourth Quarter and Fiscal Year 2024 Earnings Conference Call"
date: "2025-02-12 07:10:00"
summary: "B&amp;G Foods Announces Date of Fourth Quarter and Fiscal Year 2024 Earnings Conference CallPARSIPPANY, N.J.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--February 11, 2025--B&amp;G Foods, Inc. announced today that it intends to issue a press release with fourth quarter and fiscal 2024 financial results after the market close on Tuesday, February 25, 2025. B&amp;G Foods has..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

B&G Foods Announces Date of Fourth Quarter and Fiscal Year 2024 Earnings Conference Call

PARSIPPANY, N.J.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--February 11, 2025--

B&G Foods, Inc. announced today that it intends to issue a press release with fourth quarter and fiscal 2024 financial results after the market close on Tuesday, February 25, 2025. B&G Foods has scheduled a conference call at 4:30 p.m. ET that same day to discuss the results. Hosting the call will be Casey Keller, President and Chief Executive Officer and Bruce Wacha, Executive Vice President of Finance and Chief Financial Officer.

The earnings press release and live audio webcast of the conference call can be accessed at www.bgfoods.com/investor-relations. A replay of the webcast will be available following the conference call through the same link.

About B&G Foods, Inc.

Based in Parsippany, New Jersey, B&G Foods and its subsidiaries manufacture, sell and distribute high-quality, branded shelf-stable and frozen foods across the United States, Canada and Puerto Rico. With B&G Foods' diverse portfolio of more than 50 brands you know and love, including B&G, B&M, Bear Creek, Cream of Wheat, Crisco, Dash, Green Giant, Las Palmas, Le Sueur, Mama Mary's, Maple Grove Farms, New York Style, Ortega, Polaner, Spice Islands and Victoria, there's a little something for everyone. For more information about B&G Foods and its brands, please visit www.bgfoods.com.

View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20250211948295/en/

CONTACT: Investor Relations:

ICR, Inc.

Anna Kate Heller

bgfoodsIR@icrinc.com

Media Relations:

ICR, Inc.

Matt Lindberg

203.682.8214

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250211012719:0/)
