---
title: "Global Forex and Fixed Income Roundup: Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-13 04:01:00"
summary: "The latest Market Talks covering FX and Fixed Income. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.1500 ET - Deutsche Bank's U.S. economists maintain their call that the Fed will not choose to cut rates in 2025 after the hot January CPI data. In their base case, the DB..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The latest Market Talks covering FX and Fixed Income. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.

1500 ET - Deutsche Bank's U.S. economists maintain their call that the Fed will not choose to cut rates in 2025 after the hot January CPI data. In their base case, the DB team now thinks that the March Fed dot plot will show less inclination to cut rates this year, and that the June dot plot will erase the penciled-in cuts from the current 4.25% to 4.5% target. Rate hikes aren't out of the question but "the bar is likely to be high," the DB team writes. Hikes would likely require that, first, "downside risks to the labor market need to be extinguished," and, second, "core PCE inflation would need to accelerate towards or above 3% in year-over-year terms." Core PCE was up by 2.8% in the 12 months through December. (matt.grossman@wsj.com, @mattgrossman)

1417 ET - The uptick on core inflation last month "is less alarming than it first appears," and a Fed cut this summer remains possible, Pantheon's Sam Tombs writes. He says seasonal factors make it more complicated to extrapolate one month's data. He says the February data will give a better sense of how the underlying trend is evolving. Tombs expects the PCE gauge, to be released later this month, to edge down to 2.7% in January, from 2.8% in December. "If as we expect, the trend continues to slow over the coming months, we still think the FOMC will ease policy again in June." (paulo.trevisani@wsj.com)

1325 ET - High mortgage rates, rising to 7.04% in January compared with mid-6% last year, are impacting buyers more than sellers, Zillow says. Home values, up 44% since pre-pandemic and 2.6% year-over- year, make affordability tough, with pending sales down 3.6%. Buyers face challenges, but many listings see price cuts. Sellers, less affected by rates, are listing more, with new listings up 12% year over year, driven by equity gains and life events like job changes or family growth. Western markets like Portland, Seattle, Denver, and San Francisco are seeing the fastest listing growth. Despite buyer struggles, 25% of homes sold in December exceeded asking price, up from 19% pre-pandemic, showing some sellers still benefit in this market. (chris.wack@wsj.com)

1251 ET - Home listings are selling for less than asking price and taking longer to sell, according to Redfin. In January, the typical U.S. home was selling for 1.8% below asking, the largest discount in nearly two years, and taking 56 days to go under contract, the longest in almost five years. About 56% of listings remain on the market for at least 60 days, similar to last year but down from 61% last month, the highest in five years. High home prices--up 4% year over year--and elevated mortgage rates have pushed buyer payments near record highs, slowing the market. Political and economic uncertainty are also deterring buyers. But this slow market gives buyers more room to negotiate on price and terms, offering some relief amid high costs and low inventory. (chris.wack@wsj.com)

1158 ET - Canada Prime Minister Justin Trudeau says he had a short encounter with Vice President JD Vance about the negative fallout from a 25% tariff on steel and aluminum from Ohio. Trudeau tells reporters he told Vance — for an AI conference in Paris that the two lawmakers attended — that about C$2.2 billion of Canadian-made steel and aluminum are used by manufacturers in Vance's home state. "He nodded and noted it," Trudeau says, noting it was a short exchange. Earlier in the day, Quebec Premier Francois Legault mused that perhaps Canada should slap an export tax on U.S.-bound aluminum should the Trump administration imposes a hefty tariff on the metal. Canadian officials play down talk of export taxes, saying they want to press U.S. officials for a carve out. (paul.vieira@wsj.com, @paulvieira)

1153 ET - Gold futures slip after U.S. economic data pointed to hotter-than-expected inflation. Futures are down 0.4% at $2,920 a troy ounce, having reached a record $2,968.50 in the prior session. Consumer prices in January rose 3% from a year earlier, more than the 2.9% that economists were expecting and lowering the chances of a Federal Reserve interest rate cut any time soon. Higher rates typically damp investor enthusiasm for non-interest bearing bullion. Potential U.S. tariffs add upside risk to inflation in upcoming quarters, but there are some encouraging signs that housing costs will slow meaningfully later in 2025 and keep the door open to cuts in the second half of the year, ING analysts say in a note. (joseph.hoppe@wsj.com)

1138 ET - Oil prices fall in evening trade after U.S. crude oil inventories rose for a third straight week and CPI figures showed inflation heated up last month. Brent crude is down 1.3% to $75.98 a barrel, while WTI falls 1.5% to $72.24 a barrel. Oil stocks rose by 4.1 million barrels last week, well above expectations of a 2.4-million-barrel increase, signaling weaker demand in the world's top crude consumer. Also, the latest U.S. data showed inflation picked up speed in January, extending a recent pattern of price increases that upholds the Fed's more cautious stance on interest-rate cuts. Higher rates typically boost the U.S. dollar and make commodities like oil more expensive for holders of other currencies. Meanwhile, concerns over escalating trade tensions continue to cast a shadow on global growth and the oil-demand outlook, putting pressure on prices. (giulia.petroni@wsj.com)

1134 ET - U.S. credit spreads are expected to widen as investors expect fewer interest rate cuts from the U.S. Federal Reserve after Wednesday's stronger-than-expected inflation data, CreditSights analysts say in a note. The strong inflation data and last week's above-forecast jobs data are expected to shift market expectations "toward rate hikes and away from future rate cuts," CreditSights says. Markets now fully price in the first rate cut of 2025 in December, after the U.S. inflation data, from fully pricing in a cut in September beforehand, LSEG Refinitiv data show. The shift in Fed rate expectations is likely to push U.S. credit spreads wider "as the tailwind of easing monetary policy expectations fades," CreditSights says. (miriam.mukuru@wsj.com)

1123 ET - Markets are mostly pricing one interest rate cut, or none at all, this year in the U.S. after January CPI moved further away from the Fed's 2% target, at 3%. Capital Economics' Paul Ashworth thinks a cut this year looks increasingly unlikely. "With tariffs likely to keep core PCE inflation close to, or above, 3% this year now, the Fed will stand pat for at least the next 12 months," he writes. Treasury yields jumped on the inflation data and are holding on to their gains, with the 10-year at 4.651%, on path for its highest close since mid-January. (paulo.trevisani@wsj.com; @ptrevisani)

1058 ET - Quebec Premier Francois Legault suggests that Canada might want to slap an export tax on aluminum should President Trump follow through on imposing a 25% tariff on all imported steel and aluminum. Canada is by far the biggest seller of foreign aluminum to the U.S., and the bulk of Canadian aluminum is in the province of Quebec. The U.S. "really needs us" on aluminum, says Legault, who is in Washington with other Canadian premiers to persuade lawmakers and officials about the potential fallout on tariffs on Canadian imports. An export tax on products like aluminum might get Trump's attention, he says. "We have to be careful," Legault adds, "[because] we want to have a deal with no tariffs." (paul.vieira@wsj.com; @paulvieira)

1049 ET - The U.K. Debt Management Office has lowered supply of long-dated gilts in recent years as demand for the assets has been falling, Barclays fixed income strategist Moyeen Islam says in a note. "U.K. gilt supply has seen its average maturity shorten as ultra-long... supply has been cut back heavily," Islam says. The legacy of previous issuances of long-dated bonds remains, however. In the late 1990s and early 2000s, supply was "deliberately skewed" towards long-dated gilts and inflation-linked gilts, he says. (miriam.mukuru@wsj.com)

1004 ET - The conclusion from the January U.S. CPI numbers is clear: the Federal Reserve should not cut interest rates, says Janus Henderson Investors' Dan Siluk in a note. "No matter how the Fed breaks down the data--aggregate, core or super core--they were all above expectations," says the head of global short duration and liquidity. While consumer price indices are notorious for seasonal fluctuations and distortions at the start of the year, the labor market is clearly stable and economic conditions do not justify easing conditions, he says. "Everything indicates that the neutral interest rate should be higher." (emese.bartha@wsj.com)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250212011612:0/)
