---
title: "News Highlights: Top Global Markets News of the Day - Tuesday at 3 PM ET"
date: "2025-02-12 04:00:00"
summary: "Powell Says Fed Doesn't Need to Rush on Rate CutsThe Fed chair delivered a simple message to lawmakers: Because the economy is doing well, the Fed can take its time to decide when and whether to lower interest rates.Nasdaq Slips; Bond Yields RiseU.S. stocks were little changed. The Dow Jones..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

**Powell Says Fed Doesn't Need to Rush on Rate Cuts**

The Fed chair delivered a simple message to lawmakers: Because the economy is doing well, the Fed can take its time to decide when and whether to lower interest rates.

**Nasdaq Slips; Bond Yields Rise**

U.S. stocks were little changed. The Dow Jones Industrial Average ticked higher while the Nasdaq Composite declined.

**European Commission Chief Vows Response to Trump's Steel Tariffs**

The unjustified tariffs on the EU would trigger firm and proportionate countermeasures, Ursula von der Leyen said in a statement.

**Why This Week's Inflation Report Is Especially Important**

Fed officials are wary about getting through turn-of-the-year price resets, which contributed to big inflation jumps in recent years.

**China's Xi Is Building Economic Fortress Against U.S. Pressure**

As President Trump turns up the heat on Beijing, China is trying to become more technologically self-sufficient, but its efforts have a significant cost.

**Trump's Conflicting Business Policies Sow Economic Uncertainty**

Companies are excited about the administration's focus on fossil fuels, lower taxes and deregulation. But confusion over tariffs, deportations, and federal cuts is getting in the way.

**The Magnificent 7 Are So Last Year. Cash Cows Are the New Kings.**

A twist on value has investors waking up to the beauty of companies returning gobs of cash to shareholders.

**BOE Key Rate Should Remain 'Well Above' Neutral, Mann Says**

The BOE should continue to restrain economic activity to ensure that households and businesses don't act in ways that would prolong a coming pickup in inflation, the Monetary Policy Committee member said.

**Chinese Auto Sales Fell in January on Subdued Demand**

Retail sales of passenger cars fell 12.1% in January from a year earlier, according to the China Passenger Car Association.

**French Jobs Market Remains Strong in Face of Economy Headwinds**

Unemployment unexpectedly edged down in the final months of last year, bucking expectations and keeping the rate close to its lowest level in more than 40 years.

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250211009040:0/)
