---
title: "International Seaways to Announce Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2024 Results on February 27, 2025"
date: "2025-02-12 07:09:00"
summary: "International Seaways to Announce Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2024 Results on February 27, 2025NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)--February 11, 2025--International Seaways, Inc. (the \"Company\" or \"INSW\") announced today that it plans to release fourth quarter and full year 2024 results before market open on Thursday, February 27, 2025. The Company will..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

International Seaways to Announce Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2024 Results on February 27, 2025

NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)--February 11, 2025--

International Seaways, Inc. (the "Company" or "INSW") announced today that it plans to release fourth quarter and full year 2024 results before market open on Thursday, February 27, 2025. The Company will host a conference call for investors at 9:00 a.m. Eastern Time ("ET") on the same day.

Conference Call Details:

```
   
Date:              Thursday, February 27, 2025   
Time               9:00 AM ET   
Dial-in Numbers    US: +1 (833) 470-1428   
                   International: +1 (929) 526-1599   
Conference ID      121343   
 
```

A live webcast of the conference call will be available from the Investor Relations section of the Company's website at https://www.intlseas.com/.

An audio replay of the conference call will be available starting at 12:00 p.m. ET on Thursday, February 27, 2025 through 11:59 p.m. ET on Thursday, March 6, 2025 by dialing +1 (866) 813-9403 for domestic callers and +44 204 525 0658 for international callers, and entering Access Code 472302.

About International Seaways, Inc.

International Seaways, Inc. is one of the largest tanker companies worldwide providing energy transportation services for crude oil and petroleum products in International Flag markets. International Seaways owns and operates a fleet of 84 vessels, including 11 VLCCs, 13 Suezmaxes, five Aframaxes/LR2s, 14 LR1s (including six newbuildings), and 41 MR tankers. International Seaways has an experienced team committed to the very best operating practices and the highest levels of customer service and operational efficiency. International Seaways is headquartered in New York City, NY. Additional information is available at https://www.intlseas.com.

Forward-Looking Statements

This release contains forward-looking statements. In addition, the Company may make or approve certain statements in future filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), in press releases, or in oral or written presentations by representatives of the Company. All statements other than statements of historical facts should be considered forward-looking statements. These matters or statements may relate to the Company's plans to issue dividends, its prospects, including statements regarding vessel acquisitions, trends in the tanker markets, and possibilities of strategic alliances and investments. Forward-looking statements are based on the Company's current plans, estimates and projections, and are subject to change based on a number of factors. Investors should carefully consider the risk factors outlined in more detail in the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2023 for the Company, and in similar sections of other filings made by the Company with the SEC from time to time. The Company assumes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements and written and oral forward-looking statements attributable to the Company or its representatives after the date of this release are qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements contained in this paragraph and in other reports previously or hereafter filed by the Company with the SEC.

View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20250211568202/en/

CONTACT: Investor Relations & Media:

Tom Trovato, International Seaways, Inc.

(212) 578-1602

ttrovato@intlseas.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250211012689:0/)
