---
title: "News Highlights: Top Global Markets News of the Day - Tuesday at 9 AM ET"
date: "2025-02-11 22:15:00"
summary: "Dow Jones Futures Fall After New Trump Tariffs, Powell Testimony Next; Nvidia At Key LevelDow Jones futures dropped Tuesday on President Donald Trump's new tariffs. Nvidia stock is at a key level to watch.European Commission Chief Vows Response to Trump's Steel TariffsThe unjustified tariffs on the EU would trigger firm..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

**Dow Jones Futures Fall After New Trump Tariffs, Powell Testimony Next; Nvidia At Key Level**

Dow Jones futures dropped Tuesday on President Donald Trump's new tariffs. Nvidia stock is at a key level to watch.

**European Commission Chief Vows Response to Trump's Steel Tariffs**

The unjustified tariffs on the EU would trigger firm and proportionate countermeasures, Ursula von der Leyen said in a statement.

**Why This Week's Inflation Report Is Especially Important**

Fed officials are wary about getting through turn-of-the-year price resets, which contributed to big inflation jumps in recent years.

**China's Xi Is Building Economic Fortress Against U.S. Pressure**

As President Trump turns up the heat on Beijing, China is trying to become more technologically self-sufficient, but its efforts have a significant cost.

**Trump's Conflicting Business Policies Sow Economic Uncertainty**

Companies are excited about the administration's focus on fossil fuels, lower taxes and deregulation. But confusion over tariffs, deportations, and federal cuts is getting in the way.

**The Magnificent 7 Are So Last Year. Cash Cows Are the New Kings.**

A twist on value has investors waking up to the beauty of companies returning gobs of cash to shareholders.

**BOE Key Rate Should Remain 'Well Above' Neutral, Mann Says**

The BOE should continue to restrain economic activity to ensure that households and businesses don't act in ways that would prolong a coming pickup in inflation, the Monetary Policy Committee member said.

**Chinese Auto Sales Fell in January on Subdued Demand**

Retail sales of passenger cars fell 12.1% in January from a year earlier, according to the China Passenger Car Association.

**French Jobs Market Remains Strong in Face of Economy Headwinds**

Unemployment unexpectedly edged down in the final months of last year, bucking expectations and keeping the rate close to its lowest level in more than 40 years.

**RBA's Looming Policy Meeting Set to Be a Tense Tightrope Walk**

If money market pricing is to be believed, an interest-rate cut by the Reserve Bank of Australia next week is nearly a done deal.

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250211006051:0-news-highlights-top-global-markets-news-of-the-day-tuesday-at-9-am-et/)
