---
title: "Singapore Projects Modest Trade Growth Amid Global Uncertainties"
date: "2025-02-14 08:28:00"
summary: "By Amanda LeeSingapore's exports returned to growth last year, rebounding in line with the global electronics recovery, but significant trade risks lie in store this year, a government agency said.Growth in the city-state's non-oil domestic exports is likely to be modest this year, though the external outlook remains supportive of..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Amanda Lee

Singapore's exports returned to growth last year, rebounding in line with the global electronics recovery, but significant trade risks lie in store this year, a government agency said.

Growth in the city-state's non-oil domestic exports is likely to be modest this year, though the external outlook remains supportive of global trade, Enterprise Singapore said Friday.

Economic growth is expected for the majority of Singapore's major trading partners, including China and the U.S., boding well for trade.

"Nonetheless, significant uncertainties arising from ongoing trade frictions among major economies could result in a more challenging and competitive trade environment," the government agency said.

Enterprise Singapore continues to project exports growth at 1.0% to 3.0% this year.

Singapore's non-oil domestic exports grew by 0.2% last year, reversing the 13.1% contraction seen in 2023 due to higher shipments of electronic products, the data showed.

By destination, Hong Kong and Malaysia were the top markets for Singapore exports, while shipments to China swung to growth and those to the U.S. tipped into negative territory. Exports to Japan and the EU contracted further.

Electronics exports, a key driver of the city-state's economic growth, rose 8.2% in 2024, bouncing back from 2023's 19.7% contraction.

Shipments of non-electronic exports decreased 1.9% last year, primarily due to the volatile pharmaceuticals and ships & boats segments. That compared with a 11.1% drop in 2023.

Total merchandise trade climbed 6.6% in 2024, recovering from the 11.7% contraction recorded in the prior year, the government agency said.

Write to Amanda Lee at amanda.lee@wsj.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250213017910:0-singapore-projects-modest-trade-growth-amid-global-uncertainties/)
