---
title: "Fixed-Income Investors Advised to Avoid Risk — Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-14 03:33:00"
summary: "1433 ET - Fixed-income portfolio managers should avoid taking outsized bets and stick to the duration their clients need, as markets face increased uncertainty, says PGIM's Gregory Peters. \"We are in a higher inflation regime and consequently we are in a higher rate regime,\" he says. Peters says Trump tariffs..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

1433 ET - Fixed-income portfolio managers should avoid taking outsized bets and stick to the duration their clients need, as markets face increased uncertainty, says PGIM's Gregory Peters. "We are in a higher inflation regime and consequently we are in a higher rate regime," he says. Peters says Trump tariffs may increase inflation in the short term, but longer term he is afraid they could hamper growth. Meanwhile, taking risks doesn't seem to be paying off, he says. Peters likes Treasurys over corporates as spreads are tight. "The concern is on the valuation side, that I'm not getting paid for any risks." (paulo.trevisani@wsj.com; @ptrevisani)

1311 ET - American drinkers are indulging more at bars and less at home, Joe Wadford of the Bank of America Institute finds. In January, spending at liquor stores fell by 5% from a year ago, while spending at bars was up by 1%. Wadford speculates that the "dry January" trend could be leading consumers to cut. Abstaining in January is big on social media, and Gen Z led the pullback, spending 15% less on alcohol last month versus a year earlier. He also suggests that some people stocked up on liquor during the pandemic, and are still working on liquor bottles they bought a couple of years ago. Meanwhile, Baby Boomers are hitting the town. They spent 4% more at bars than a year ago last month, the biggest increase among any generation. (matt.grossman@wsj.com; @mattgrossman)

1158 ET - There were three running threads during airlines' most recent reporting season, UBS analysts say in a research note. For starters, strong demand accelerated throughout the fourth quarter, fueled by leisure and corporate travelers. This trend has been sticking around so far in the first quarter, the analysts note. Additionally, international flights drove revenue, more so than domestic, they say. Finally, cost pressures remain at large, as evidenced by most airlines' costs per available seat mile outweighing revenues per available seat mile, according to analysts. The quarter was overall strong, but the industry remains one of the haves and the have-nots, analysts say, noting their top picks of Alaska Air Group, United Airlines Holdings and Delta Air Lines. (connor.hart@wsj.com)

1134 ET — Tariffs won't be a problem for Corsair Gaming, executives say on a call with analysts. The gaming technology company moved the production of most of its U.S.-bound products out of China five years ago during President Trump's first round of tariffs, at which time the company also "planned further actions in case more or expanded tariffs were announced," CFO Michael Potter says. It doesn't have any factory locations in Canada or Mexico. Corsair guides for better-than-expected revenue in 2025, including the effect of tariffs. "Depending on the news coming up next, that might change the picture," COO Thi La says, "but at the moment, we feel pretty good about our supply chain." Shares rise 17%. (connor.hart@wsj.com)

1115 ET - UBS has lowered its supply forecasts for U.S. investment-grade credit and high-yield credit in 2025 on expectations that interest rates could stay high for a prolonged period. High interest rates are likely to discourage U.S. companies from issuing new debt, lowering corporate-bond supply. UBS forecasts U.S. investment-grade credit supply in 2025 at $1.5 trillion, $50 billion lower than their previously forecast. It expects U.S. high-yield credit supply to be $310 billion, $40 billion lower than their earlier projection. (miriam.mukuru@wsj.com)

1107 ET - The euro's current strength might not last as optimism for a deal to end the Ukraine war looks overdone, Monex Europe analysts say in a note. The prospect of Russian gas supplies resuming seems unlikely as that would leave the rest of Europe hostage to further Russian aggression, they say. The potential gain from Russia as an export market is also probably overstated. Furthermore, a deal could prove detrimental to Europe's security in the longer term. "We continue to see downside risks to the euro in the short to medium term, despite the initial bias to take the single currency higher." The euro rises 0.5% to an 8-day high of $1.0442, FactSet data show. (renae.dyer@wsj.com)

1100 ET - High yields on corporate bonds are likely to attract investors into credit markets, Insight Investment portfolio managers say in a note. Interest rates remain elevated compared to near-zero levels before 2022, "making investment-grade credit very attractive on a yield basis," Insight Investment says. "As long as absolute yields remain at levels that generate attractive long-term returns, we think investors are likely to overlook the tight level of spreads." (miriam.mukuru@wsj.com)

1045 ET - NATO members should get ready to spend more than 3% of their gross domestic product on defense, the alliance's Secretary General Mark Rutte tells a press conference in Brussels. That level of spending would be the bare minimum to meet the defense goals and commitments agreed by the alliance, he says. Only five of the 32 NATO members--Estonia, Greece, Latvia, Poland and U.S.--spend above 3% on defense. The U.S. administration, which is putting pressure on the rest of NATO to boost defense spending, has "every right to be extremely irritated," Rutte says. (cristina.gallardo@wsj.com)

1044 ET - Sterling could rise slightly against the euro in 2025 as the Bank of England is expected to cut interest rates more gradually compared to the European Central Bank, Convera analysts say in a note. Yield differentials still favor further sterling strength versus the euro, although gains should be limited, they say. Sterling faces headwinds from concerns about stagflation--weak growth combined high inflation--as well as recent fiscal worries. However, the euro faces its own challenges with lacklustre growth, political woes in Germany and France and weak demand from China. Holding above 1.20 will be key for GBP/EUR to build on its gains over the past two years. It last trades up 0.1% at 1.1998. (renae.dyer@wsj.com)

1042 ET - A decision by Canada's bank regulator to defer a planned increase to the Basel III standardized capital floor suggests the move has been indefinitely shelved, Scotiabank's Derek Holt suggests. The deferral, following last summer's one-year delay, follows a global pattern, the economist adds. It means Canadian banks won't be at a relative disadvantage to banks in other countries, and most notably in the U.S., in having to set aside more capital. Holt says the competitive equity angle clearly dominated the regulator's decision since its release notes there remains uncertainty about when other jurisdictions will fully implement Basel III. "Under Trump? Likely never." (robb.stewart@wsj.com; @RobbMStewart)

1039 ET - Living alone comes with a hefty "singles tax," according to Zillow. Solo renters pay an extra $7,562 for a one-bedroom compared to sharing. This tax has increased by over $450 from last year due to rising rents. Couples or roommates save $15,123 annually, making cohabitation financially rewarding. New York City tops the list with a $20,100 annual premium for solo living. The top cities for this tax have remained stable, but Boston jumped from fifth to fourth place, overtaking Washington, D.C., reflecting its escalating rental costs, with average rent at $3,002 in December 2024, 53% above the national average. While solo living offers autonomy, the financial burden is significant, urging renters to weigh their lifestyle against the cost. (chris.wack@wsj.com)

1038 ET - Several NATO members announced increases in their defense spending at Thursday's meeting of the alliance's defense ministers in Brussels, Secretary General Mark Rutte tells a press conference, without naming any. Rutte says the European members of the 32-strong alliance must ramp up defense production alongside spending. He insists that these countries and Canada are spending a greater proportion on defense. "We are producing more and faster than at any time in decades, but we can and must do more," Rutte says. "We need to shift to a wartime mindset and we need industry to shift with us." (cristina.gallardo@wsj.com)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250213013505:0/)
