---
title: "Global Equities Roundup: Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-11 22:14:00"
summary: "The latest Market Talks covering Equities. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.0914 ET - Shopify is taking in new big players in the retail space while expanding services with existing customers. In his prepared statements, CEO Tobias Lutke says Shopify has signed big brands, such as Karl..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The latest Market Talks covering Equities. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.

0914 ET - Shopify is taking in new big players in the retail space while expanding services with existing customers. In his prepared statements, CEO Tobias Lutke says Shopify has signed big brands, such as Karl Lagerfeld, with 70 point of sale locations. FC Barcelona, another big coup in 4Q, with a 330 million fan base, is now using Shopify's POS system, not just online commerce services. Meanwhile, existing clients such as Everlane have taken on expanded services after being onboarded with basic services. Other notables, Lutke says, were shoe companies Aldo, Sperry with each deciding "to go all in with us." (adriano.marchese@wsj.com)

0912 ET — Shopify says AI is becoming a bigger part of its offering, and plans to pour more money into the service. In his prepared remarks, President Tobias Lutke says Shopify will "deepen investment in SideKick [Shopify's AI-enabled commerce assistant] and other AI capabilities." Lutke says the AI capabilities can serve its smaller merchants as well as its larger clients, which aim to support "streamlined operations and decision-making." In late January, China presented its low-cost AI model DeepSeek, which sent shivers across the rest of the tech space. But Shopify shares got a boost because it was seen as a potential beneficiary of AI models going open source, reducing costs. (adriano.marchese@wsj.com)

0855 ET - WK Kellogg rise 4% premarket after the cereal giant's adjusted profit tops analyst estimates, outweighing disappointing sales. The maker of Frosted Flakes and Froot Loops posted sales of $640M, down nearly 2% from year-ago levels, in part reflecting what Kellogg CEO Gary Pilnick calls an "ongoing challenging business environment." The sales decline also comes as consumers reject higher cereal prices. Kellogg says 4Q sales volumes fell 6% as prices increased 4%. Kellogg posts adjusted earnings of 42 cents per share, ahead of the 25 cents analysts expected. (jesse.newman@wsj.com)

0815 ET - Toronto-Dominion Bank expects to net C$20 billion from the sale of its investment in Charles Schwab, with C$8 billion of that earmarked for a share buyback program. The exit from Schwab is the first major move by the bank's new CEO. TD estimates the transaction, including the buyback, will create about 1.16 percentage point of CET1 capital. The remainder of the proceeds are to be invested in TD's businesses, and the transaction is set to bolster per-share earnings on a run-rate basis. Moody's views the credit impact of TD's Schwab sale as modest given the non-core nature of the investment, and with TD and Schwab continuing their insured deposit account agreement. However, Moody's says the plan to return a large portion of the proceeds to shareholders is credit negative, though TD had a CET1 ratio of 13.1% at the end of fiscal 4Q, well above regulatory minimums. (robb.stewart@wsj.com; @RobbMStewart)

0759 ET - Babcock International will outperform its midterm guidance, Citi analysts Sam Burgess and Charles Armitage say. They also expect the U.K. defense company to report 4.9 billion pounds in revenue in fiscal 2025, in line with company guidance, at about 7% margin. The group's Mentor 2 contract with the French government, worth up to 800 million euros, is likely to be welcomed by investors as a good long-term deal, but it also boosts regional diversification of revenue, they write. Citi increases its target price on the stock by 70 pence to 7.30 pounds. Shares are up 1.6% at 6.06 pounds. (cristina.gallardo@wsj.com)

0745 ET - SGS's 2027 strategy implementation is showing promising results, Vontobel analyst Michael Foeth says in a research note. The Swiss testing, inspection and certification company's strategy 2027 execution led to solid profitability improvement and strong free cash flow generation, the analyst says. This allowed for balance sheet deleveraging and an increased option for investors to receive more shares instead of a cash dividend, he says. Shares trade 6.5% higher at 97.08 Swiss francs. (nina.kienle@wsj.com)

0656 ET - SGS's outlook for 2025 looks encouraging, although broadly in line with consensus, Jefferies analysts say in a research note. The Swiss testing, inspection and certification company expects to deliver 5% to 7% organic growth, compared with consensus estimates at above 5.9%, the analysts say. SGS aims for a more than 30 basis points margin improvement, against consensus at more than 40 basis points. "Overall results, guidance and commentary we think will be viewed as encouraging," they say. Shares trade 6.1% higher at 96.72 Swiss francs.(nina.kienle@wsj.com)

0654 ET - EU laws that force technology giants to moderate content online and shore up users' data privacy unfairly target U.S. companies, U.S. Vice President JD Vance says during the AI Action Summit in Paris. Vance mentions the European Union's Digital Services Act, which obliges companies to moderate platforms for illegal content and tackle misinformation online. "It is one thing to prevent a predator from preying on a child on the internet, quite different to prevent a grown man or woman from accessing an opinion that the government thinks is misinformation," he says. He also notes the bloc's data protection rules force tech companies into paying "endless" legal fees and that "for some, the easiest way to avoid the dilemma has been to simply block EU users in the first place." (edith.hancock@wsj.com)

0640 ET - U.S. President Donald Trump's administration is troubled by foreign governments seeking to regulate U.S. technology giants, Vice President JD Vance says during the AI Action Summit in Paris. Some foreign governments are considering tightening the screws on U.S. tech companies with international footprints, Vance says. "America cannot and will not accept that. I think it is a terrible mistake not just for the United States of America but for your own countries," he adds. (edith.hancock@wsj.com)

0558 ET - EssilorLuxottica's purchase of Cellview Imaging marks the second acquisition in ophthalmology diagnostics for the European eyecare giant as it pushes into this and other subcategories, RBC Capital Markets' Piral Dadhania says in a note. The Ray-Ban maker said it is buying Canadian startup Cellview, which offers diagnostics via retinal imaging, for an undisclosed sum. The deal follows EssilorLuxottica's July acquisition of Heidelberg Engineering, another ophthalmology diagnostics company, and strengthens its offering, RBC says. EssilorLuxottica is pursuing a structural expansion into selective ophthalmology subcategories, with a move into diagnostics already in progress and potentially in cataracts and contact lenses down the line, the analyst says. Shares rise 1.1%. (adria.calatayud@wsj.com)

0553 ET - Merck KGaA's potential acquisition of SpringWorks Therapeutics puts Merck's healthcare business strategy into question, Equita analyst Davide Marchesin says in a note. The German pharma company previously said it would focus on licensing agreements rather than full acquisitions for its healthcare business. "Taking over SpringWorks Therapeutics would not be in line with such statement, increasing the market skepticism about Merck's strategy," the analyst says. Shares are down 0.1% at 134.85 euros.(helena.smolak@wsj.com)

0552 ET - Merck KGaA's potential acquisition of SpringWorks Therapeutics could boost its cancer-treatment pipeline, but the profitability of the deal is questionable, Equita analyst Davide Marchesin says in a note. "Therapeutics is generating over 350 million euros of annual revenues and it is loss making, therefore one critical question would be if the acquisition would be accretive from year one," the analyst says. The German pharma company's acquisition of the U.S. biopharmaceutical company would be one of the biggest pharma deals for Merck in recent years, potentially amounting to around 4 billion euros with a peak sales potential of over 1.0 billion euros in a few years, he says. Merck's shares are up 0.4% at 135.45 euros. (helena.smolak@wsj.com)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250211006044:0/)
