---
title: "Democrats Protest Dismantling of CFPB as Trump Nominates New Agency Head — Barrons.com"
date: "2025-02-13 05:50:00"
summary: "By Kenneth CorbinCongressional Democrats are blasting the Trump administration's efforts to hobble the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, the agency created after the 2008 financial crisis to combat deceptive or abusive practices in the financial-services industry.Sen. Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts and California Rep. Maxine Waters, the ranking Democrats on the Senate..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Kenneth Corbin

Congressional Democrats are blasting the Trump administration's efforts to hobble the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, the agency created after the 2008 financial crisis to combat deceptive or abusive practices in the financial-services industry.

Sen. Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts and California Rep. Maxine Waters, the ranking Democrats on the Senate Banking and House Finance Services committees, along with a group of more than 170 Democrats, signed a letter calling for the removal of Elon Musk's DOGE operatives from the agency.

The letter, addressed to Treasury Secretary Scott Bessent and Russell Vought, the director of the Office of Management and Budget who is helming the CFPB on an interim basis, acknowledges that Republicans have long been critical of the agency's operations but calls the recent orders to halt its work "illegal."

"We beat back all prior efforts to gut this agency, and we will fight this latest attack in Congress, the courts, and the public," they wrote. "It will fail."

The CFPB didn't immediately respond to a request for comment.

After President Trump ousted former Director Rohit Chopra, Bessent took over on an interim basis, followed by Vought, whom the Senate confirmed to head OMB earlier this week.

Yesterday, Trump nominated Jonathan McKernan, a former board member of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp., to head the bureau on a permanent basis.

How much will remain of the agency if and when McKernan is confirmed is unclear.

"The CFPB has been a woke & weaponized agency against disfavored industries and individuals for a long time," Vought wrote in a social-media post Feb. 9. "This must end."

Critics have also objected to the CFPB's funding model. The agency's operations are funded by earnings of the Federal Reserve, rather than a congressional appropriation, which led to a constitutional challenge against the agency. Last May, the Supreme Court ruled that the CFPB's funding structure is constitutional.

The CFPB's funding request for fiscal 2023 was $721 million, well ahead of the 2011 mark of $161 million, according to an analysis by the Congressional Research Service. The bureau says it has returned more than $21 billion to victims of fraudulent or deceptive industry practice, well ahead of its cumulative funding level over the lifespan of the agency.

The Democrats' letter revisits the events of a tumultuous February at the bureau, including Bessent's order to halt rulemaking, enforcement, and litigation activities, and Vought's expansion of the work stoppage to all of the agency's operations.

They argued that those actions together have "effectively fired the financial cop on the beat and declared open season for predatory lenders and scam artists working to steal Americans' money and threaten their financial security."

On Wednesday, reports surfaced that the CFPB had sent out termination notices to dozens of employees.

Congressional Democrats also warned against Musk's team gaining access to sensitive data in the CFPB's systems, including information about digital payment platforms that could be competitors to the payments service Musk's social-media company X is planning to launch later this year.

"Your efforts to dismantle the CFPB are dangerous, and we will fight them at every turn," the lawmakers wrote to Bessent and Vought. "We ask that you remove Mr. Musk's operatives from the CFPB, restore all internal and external systems and operations, and allow the CFPB to continue to do its job of protecting American consumers."

Write to advisor.editors@barrons.com

This content was created by Barron's, which is operated by Dow Jones & Co. Barron's is published independently from Dow Jones Newswires and The Wall Street Journal.

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250212014975:0/)
