---
title: "Health Care Roundup: Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-13 17:20:00"
summary: "The latest Market Talks covering the Health Care sector. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires at 4:20 ET, 12:20 ET and 16:50 ET.0840 GMT - EssilorLuxottica posted better-than-expected sales for the fourth quarter, Jefferies analysts write in a note to clients. The Franco-Italian eyewear group behind reported 6.78 billion euros..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The latest Market Talks covering the Health Care sector. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires at 4:20 ET, 12:20 ET and 16:50 ET.

0840 GMT - EssilorLuxottica posted better-than-expected sales for the fourth quarter, Jefferies analysts write in a note to clients. The Franco-Italian eyewear group behind reported 6.78 billion euros in sales, up 9.2% on year at constant currency. That is above Visible Alpha consensus of 6.5% growth, the analysts point out. Sales were lifted by a recovery in North America, where revenue grew 7.8% at constant currency to 3.15 billion euros. The company said its North American business had its best quarter of the year. EssilorLuxottica shares trade 2.4% higher at 282.70 euros. (mauro.orru@wsj.com)

0517 GMT - Top Glove's earnings outlook is expected to remain neutral, with its risk-reward profile looking balanced to Citi analyst Megat Fais. Top Glove has strong capacity to absorb additional demand but faces potential risks from increased competition in non-U.S. markets, the analyst says in a note. The bank notes that the wider Malaysian glove sector faces a positive outlook due to improving demand-supply dynamics and could gain from additional tariffs on Chinese gloves. Citi cuts its FY 2025-FY 2027 EPS forecasts for the glove maker by 11%, 8%, and 2%, respectively, citing recent trends. Citi raises Top Glove's target price to MYR1.23 from MYR1.07 as it rolls forward valuations to end-FY 2026, while maintaining a neutral rating on the stock. Shares are 1.6% lower at MYR1.20. (yingxian.wong@wsj.com)

1107 GMT - After a bruising 2024, CVS shares continue to rebound after the healthcare giant's 4Q results top Wall Street expectations. The company reports revenue up 4% at $97.7 billion, beating analyst targets. The top line was boosted by growth in CVS's healthcare benefits and pharmacy segments, offset slightly by a decline in its health service segment. Quarterly adjusted earnings of $1.19 a share cleared analyst forecasts for 91 cents a share. The company's earnings guidance for 2025 is in line with current estimates. Shares rise 9% to $59.71 premarket. (dean.seal@wsj.com)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250213004515:0/)
