---
title: "Elliott Management Keeps Its Approach to BP Friendly For Now — Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-10 21:54:00"
summary: "0854 ET - Elliott Management hasn't made a hostile approach to the BP board and will seek a more \"suggestivist\" approach to get its ideas across, AJ Bell investment director Russ Mould writes. Elliott is reportedly seeking better shareholder value but it is hard to see how it can campaign..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

0854 ET - Elliott Management hasn't made a hostile approach to the BP board and will seek a more "suggestivist" approach to get its ideas across, AJ Bell investment director Russ Mould writes. Elliott is reportedly seeking better shareholder value but it is hard to see how it can campaign for higher dividends or share buybacks, he writes. In 2024, BP delivered $5 billion in dividends and ran share buybacks worth $7.3 billion, he says. Elliott might want BP to refocus its strategy on oil-and-gas production, better allocate capex, or shift its listing to the U.S., Mould says. Shares trade up 7.3% at 464.65 pence. (adam.whittaker@wsj.com)

0851 ET - Barclays thinks Friday's 26% plunge in Newell Brands was likely overdone. Analyst Lauren Lieberman says in a note that while guidance came in below street estimates and the company reported a weak quarter, "not one investor we spoke to viewed Newell's share price reaction... as warranted (and nor do we)." Lieberman says Wall Street "is trying to rationalize what feels like an irrational move." The analyst reiterates her overweight recommendation on Newell Brands and $11 price target. Newell is up 4.2% to $7.43 premarket. (Natasha.Khan@wsj.com)

0849 ET - Canada stands to bear the brunt of the pain from President Trump's 25% tariff on steel and aluminum tariffs. Canada is the top exporter to the U.S. of steel, accounting for about 25% of steel imports, via the International Trade Administration. Mexico is No. 2 at about 15%. Canada is by far the biggest seller to the US of aluminum, accounting for 60% of imports. Canada won a reprieve last week on 25% tariffs on all its nonenergy US-bound exports, which Trump says he will revisit early next month to ensure Ottawa is living up to its commitment to fortify border security and deter fentanyl trafficking. (Paul.Vieira@wsj.com, @paulvieira)

0813 ET - Hain Celestial lowers its annual guidance amid problems in the company's snacks and personal care businesses. The organic food maker says poor "in-store performance" in snacks hurt Hain's F2Q results, with problems tied to marketing and promotions. Hain also experienced challenges with tea ingredients, the company says. Hain cuts its outlook for both earnings and sales in 2025, and says it is exploring strategic options for its personal care business. Hain posts sales of $411M, below analyst estimates, and its adjusted EPS also misses expectations. Hain Celestial is off 7% premarket. (jesse.newman@wsj.com)

0758 ET - ArcelorMittal says urgent support is needed to bolster the competitiveness and sustainability of European steelmaking, just as the U.S. is expected to put 25% tariffs on steel and aluminium imports. The Luxembourg-based steelmaker said it supports trade measures designed to protect the steel sector from unfair trade practices and address the glut in market. It says the steel industry is contending with significant excess global capacity with the market in Europe facing subdued demand and record-high imports. Foreign steel imports to Europe hold a 27% market share, ArcelorMittal says. Shares trade down 2.2% at 26.77 euros. (pierre.bertrand@wsj.com)

0615 ET - Shares of U.S. steelmakers rise premarket after President Trump said he plans to impose 25% tariffs Monday on steel and aluminum imports. U.S. Steel shares are up 8.3% in premarket trading after closing last week at $36.93. Nucor shares are also up 8.5%, while Steel Dynamics shares are 5.7% higher. Nucor shares closed last week at $130.26 while Steel Dynamics closed at $126.71. President Trump announced plans to introduce 25% tariffs on imports of steel and aluminum, with the levies applying to every nation exporting the metals to the U.S. (pierre.bertrand@wsj.com)

0517 ET - U.S. tariffs on steel imports would only have a very limited impact on Thyssenkrupp at present, a spokesman for the company says. Europe is the German industrial and steel group's main market for steel and what the company does export to the U.S. is negligible and mostly concerns high-quality products, the company says. Sales in the U.S. are mainly from Thyssenkrupp's trading business and its automotive supply business, operations which are supported by a significant share of local manufacturing, Thyssenkrupp says. The company adds that much of the production for U.S. customers takes place within the U.S., which minimizes the risks associated with tariffs. Thyssenkrupp says, however, that it is monitoring developments. Shares trade up 0.07% to 4.59 euros. (pierre.bertrand@wsj.com)

0349 ET - Meiji Yasuda Life's deal with Legal & General America is expected to positively impact the Japanese insurer's credit profile, Fitch Ratings analysts say. The deal takes into account the strong position of L&G's Banner Life in the steadily expanding U.S. individual life insurance market and pension risk transfer business, as well as improved global diversification for Meiji Yasuda, the analysts note. Fitch expects the impact on Meiji Yasuda's capital adequacy and financial leverage to be minimal and manageable, citing its consolidated net assets and cash equivalents. The group's strong position in the Japanese life insurance market should also help maintain overall sound credit fundamentals. (fabiana.negrinochoa@wsj.com)

0312 ET - DeepSeek's success could boost demand for Nvidia's products despite the chip maker's stock being among the hardest hit initially, Tiger Brokers market strategist James Ooi writes in a note. DeepSeek is viewed as AI's Sputnik moment, as the Chinese AI startup appears to have shaken U.S. AI dominance by achieving comparable performance at a fraction of the costs incurred by its American counterparts, he says. AI software stocks should benefit from DeepSeek's success as lower computing costs would open up new opportunities, Ooi says. It could also create higher demand for Nvidia's GPUs despite initial fears that lower-cost AI models may reduce the need for high-end chips, he adds. (jiahui.huang@wsj.com; @ivy\_jiahuihuang)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250210005628:0/)
