---
title: "Global Equities Roundup: Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-12 00:48:00"
summary: "The latest Market Talks covering Equities. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.1148 ET - SharkNinja's latest C-suite hire is proof of its commitment to brand expansion and business growth, says Jefferies' Randal Konik in a research note. The company known for its blenders, vacuums and other home..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The latest Market Talks covering Equities. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.

1148 ET - SharkNinja's latest C-suite hire is proof of its commitment to brand expansion and business growth, says Jefferies' Randal Konik in a research note. The company known for its blenders, vacuums and other home gadgets names Linus Karlsson as chief creative officer, effective March 3; he most recently served as CCO for IKEA. Konik says the Shark and Ninja brands have become recognizable and ones that consumers now trust across categories, which has allowed them credibility to expand into unexpected areas such as beauty. "We see Karlsson as the latest addition of top-tier talent at SN that will likely drive SharkNinja's innovation flywheel, solidify its market leadership, and ensure sustained competitive advantage going forward," the analyst says. (denny.jacob@wsj.com; @pennedbyden)

1144 ET - Merck's advanced takeover talks with the U.S. biotech Springworks Therapeutics will likely have a minimal impact on earnings estimates, analysts at DZ Bank say in a note. Springworks fits into the German company's strategy of focusing on drugs below the blockbuster threshold, they say. However, both companies are too small to predict a guaranteed success of the merger. In principle, a strengthening of the Merck Healthcare division is desirable, DZ Bank analysts say. Merck has long stated its desire for larger acquisitions in the healthcare and life science space, which should be possible even after this transaction, according to the DZ Bank. Shares are flat at 134.95 euros. (helena.smolak@wsj.com)

1139 ET - Marriott International CEO Tony Capuano says on a call with analysts that the U.S. and Canada had their best quarterly growth in revenue per available room, or RevPAR, for the year during 4Q, up 4% on higher average daily rates. "The drop in occupancy around November's U.S. election was not as severe as we had anticipated," he says. International RevPAR grew 7% during the recent quarter thanks to higher prices and occupancy. The increase, Capuano says, was led by strong growth in Japan, India and Thailand, in addition to strong leisure demand across Europe. Shares slip 6% as Marriott's outlook underwhelms. (connor.hart@wsj.com)

1134 ET - Consumers are prioritizing their spend on travel. Leisure travel accounts for 44% of Marriott International's global room nights in 4Q, CEO Tony Capuano says on a call with analysts. He adds that leisure was the company's fastest-growing unit, with revenue per available room, or RevPAR, up 6% globally. Business travel is also strong, accounting for about one-third of global room nights during the quarter, he says. Group travel posts its lowest growth quarter of the year, which Capuano attributes to fewer group events in the U.S. around November's election. Shares fall 5.7% as Marrott's outlook underwhelms investors. (connor.hart@wsj.com)

1130 ET - EssilorLuxottica's earnings are accelerating on a steadily-growing optical market and a potential expansion of its smart glasses portfolio, Jefferies analysts say in a note. The Ray-Ban maker extended a partnership with Meta Platforms to develop smart-eyewear products with a new long-term agreement. Given Meta's ambitions in wearables, a broadened partnership or stakeholding seems possible, the analysts say. Jefferies analysts expect a third generation of smart glasses to be potentially ready for consumers in time for the 2025 holiday-shopping season. The broker upgrades its rating on the stock to buy from hold. Shares are up 1.8% at 277.20 euros. (helena.smolak@wsj.com)

1123 ET - Seven of Redfin.com's 10 most-viewed home listings in January were in the Bay Area, particularly the East Bay and near San Jose, with two in Seattle's eastside suburbs. One popular listing was in Pacific Palisades, Los Angeles, amid recent wildfires. Nine listings exceed $1 million, five surpass $2 million, far above the U.S. median home price of $430,000. High interest in Silicon Valley and Seattle stems from limited desirable homes, despite improving inventory, and tech workers returning to offices. Amazon's mandate impacted 12,000 Bellevue workers, while Bay Area listings near Tesla and Meta offices also drew attention. These regions, among the most populous and highest-income U.S. metro areas, naturally attract significant viewership. (chris.wack@wsj.com)

1120 ET - Carrier Global is positioning itself for a boom in data centers. The air-conditioning and building-automation company earlier this month introduced a suite of energy-efficient solutions, which executives on an earnings call Tuesday described as a one-stop shop for a data center's cooling needs. Carrier said it's looking at $1 billion in data center sales this year, which would approximately double from last year. Executives added that they see an opportunity for outsized growth in data centers in 2025 and beyond. Shares fall 1.5% to $65.26 as 4Q revenue growth came in below Wall Street's estimates. (denny.jacob@wsj.com; @pennedbyden)

1117 ET - Travelers from Mexico and Canada have been cancelling reservations and pulling back on travel plans in light of heightened geopolitical tensions and looming tariffs, but it is too soon to tell whether this downturn will hurt Marriott International's future results, CFO Leeny Oberg says on a call with analysts. She's not too worried, though, as the majority of the U.S. and Canadian market is driven by domestic travels. "We'll see over time, but certainly too early to say and overwhelmingly a very small part of our business in the U.S.," she says. Marriott shares fall 4.7% after its 2025 outlook misses estimates. (connor.hart@wsj.com)

1110 ET - Ford could face layoffs if Trump gets rid of certain legislation that Biden passed to support electric vehicle production. CEO Jim Farley said he is concerned about Trump repealing parts of the Inflation Reduction Act, which incentivized various green-energy efforts including electric vehicle production. Ford has already sunk capital into initiatives that would benefit from the IRA, and expects it would have to cut jobs at plants across the country if large parts of the IRA is repealed. Farley said he is visiting D.C. on Wednesday for the second time in three weeks to try to highlight how much policy uncertainty is weighing on the auto industry. (katherine.hamilton@wsj.com)

1108 ET - Tariffs are bringing "cost and chaos" to Ford in the immediate term, Chief Executive Jim Farley said during a call. Tariffs on vehicles and components Ford ships into the U.S. from Mexico and Canada would be devastating. Meanwhile, competitors in South Korea, Japan and Europe, which bring in millions of vehicles into the U.S., would experience significant windfall from not being subject to tariffs, Farley said. Ford gets about 90% of its steel domestically and isn't worried about aluminium duties, but tariffs could drive up the market price for those goods. (katherine.hamilton@wsj.com)

1050 ET - Gerresheimer's destocking is expected to mimic trends seen by other pharmaceutical supplier peers, UBS analysts say in a research note. The analysts have trimmed their primary packaging glass forecasts. This is because they expect that vials destocking should abate by mid 2025 at the latest, they say. The German packaging company's shares trade broadly flat at 80.45 euros. (nina.kienle@wsj.com)

0946 ET - Forecasts for cold weather over the next 10 days, including a winter storm into the Midwest and Northeast, are giving natural gas futures an additional lift. "Possible well freeze-offs in the Appalachian northeast are keeping the bullish trend alive," BOK Financial's Dennis Kissler says. "Much colder temperatures this winter versus a year ago and rising LNG demand is making a statement." Kissler also notes European gas prices at 2-year highs given faster-than-expected depletion of storage. The Nymex front month is up 2.9% at $3.543/mmBtu. (anthony.harrup@wsj.com)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250211007575:0/)
