---
title: "Global Energy Roundup: Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-13 03:17:00"
summary: "The latest Market Talks covering Energy markets. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.1417 ET - The uptick on core inflation last month \"is less alarming than it first appears,\" and a Fed cut this summer remains possible, Pantheon's Sam Tombs writes. He says seasonal factors make it..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The latest Market Talks covering Energy markets. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.

1417 ET - The uptick on core inflation last month "is less alarming than it first appears," and a Fed cut this summer remains possible, Pantheon's Sam Tombs writes. He says seasonal factors make it more complicated to extrapolate one month's data. He says the February data will give a better sense of how the underlying trend is evolving. Tombs expects the PCE gauge, to be released later this month, to edge down to 2.7% in January, from 2.8% in December. "If as we expect, the trend continues to slow over the coming months, we still think the FOMC will ease policy again in June." (paulo.trevisani@wsj.com)

1415 ET - Oil futures extend losses after President Trump says he had a long phone conversation with Russian President Putin and expressed optimism about bringing the Russia-Ukraine war to an end as the two "agreed to start negotiations immediately." Trump also spoke with Ukrainian President Zelensky. Trump made no mention of U.S. sanctions on Russian oil, although the EIA said this week it doesn't expect the sanctions to significantly affect its 2025 global production forecasts. WTI is off 2.6% at $71.40 a barrel and Brent is down 2.3% at $75.21. (anthony.harrup@wsj.com)

1138 ET - Oil prices fall in evening trade after U.S. crude oil inventories rose for a third straight week and CPI figures showed inflation heated up last month. Brent crude is down 1.3% to $75.98 a barrel, while WTI falls 1.5% to $72.24 a barrel. Oil stocks rose by 4.1 million barrels last week, well above expectations of a 2.4-million-barrel increase, signaling weaker demand in the world's top crude consumer. Also, the latest U.S. data showed inflation picked up speed in January, extending a recent pattern of price increases that upholds the Fed's more cautious stance on interest-rate cuts. Higher rates typically boost the U.S. dollar and make commodities like oil more expensive for holders of other currencies. Meanwhile, concerns over escalating trade tensions continue to cast a shadow on global growth and the oil-demand outlook, putting pressure on prices. (giulia.petroni@wsj.com)

0918 ET - U.S. natural gas futures are steady to higher with frigid temperatures for much of the U.S. expected to continue next week, keeping heating demand at high levels. "The market is now forced to price in a storage deficit that could persist through the shoulder period given this unexpected cold spell that will be moving through the nation's mid-section through the rest of this week and much of next week," Ritterbusch says in a note. A below-average storage withdrawal expected for last week is likely to be followed by a string of above-average inventory draws, "rendering tomorrow's EIA storage report almost meaningless," the firm adds. The Nymex front month is up 1% at $3.553/mmBtu. (anthony.harrup@wsj.com)

0855 ET - Oil futures are down after an industry group reports a large build in U.S. crude inventories, while OPEC holds its 2025 oil demand growth estimate at 1.45 million barrels a day. The API said crude stocks increased by 9 million barrels last week, analysts note, which follows an 8.7 million barrel build reported for the previous week by the EIA. The EIA's data for last week are due at 10:30 ET. "Crude stock builds are expected in the U.S., but the recent rate of building is more than expected," TP ICAP's Scott Shelton says in a note. "I think that we may see a slowing in the builds in February for the U.S. as exports will be stronger," he adds. WTI is down 1.2% at $72.43 a barrel, and Brent is off 1% at $76.23. (anthony.harrup@wsj.com)

0813 ET - Vertiv slumps despite a strong 4Q report as investors punish management's conservative approach to guidance. The maker of cooling and power equipment for data centers maintained guidance it provided in November for adjusted earnings of $3.50 to $3.60 a share in 2025, and raised its sales outlook by $75 million at the midpoint to a range of about $9.1 billion to $9.3 billion. Investors seem to have wanted more. Shares are down 7% at $114.14 premarket. Management tends to be conservative with initial outlooks, JPMorgan analyst Stephen Tusa said in a research note on Tuesday, adding that he expected the company to reaffirm its initial outlook. (dean.seal@wsj.com)

0749 ET - Legrand is expected to post higher full-year sales on Thursday, according to a company-compiled consensus estimate. The French electrical and digital building-infrastructure manufacturer is expected to post sales of 8.54 billion euros for 2024, compared to 8.42 billion euros the prior year. Operating profit is forecast at 1.60 million euros, according to consensus estimates provided by Visible Alpha. This would be above 2023's 1.59 billion euros. Shares trade 0.1% higher at 98.02 euros. (nina.kienle@wsj.com)

0648 ET - Siemens Energy's first-quarter results were boosted by strong contract liabilities, Citi analysts write in a research note. The German energy company booked pretax free cash flow of 1.53 billion euros for the 3 months ended Dec. 31, compared with a loss of 283 million euros a year prior. Customer advances and prepayments drove a mammoth 2.1 billion euros worth of cash inflows during the quarter, the analysts write. Investors will want to understand what drove the strong contract liabilities print, and the implications it has on future demand, they add. Shares trade up 1.05% to 57.90 euros. (adam.whittaker@wsj.com)

0509 ET - Palm oil prices rose, driven by tightened supply and a softer Malaysian ringgit, Darren Lim, commodities strategist at Phillip Nova writes in a note. The 17% drop in production in January, according to the Malaysian Palm Oil Board, reflects tightening supply, driving the price rally along with expectations of heightened demand ahead of the Ramadan festive season, Lim says. A weaker ringgit has also made palm oil more attractive to foreign buyers, Lim adds. The Bursa Malaysia Derivatives contract for April delivery rose MYR31 to MYR4,624/ton. (kimberley.kao@wsj.com)

0439 ET - European natural-gas prices retreat after reaching their highest level in two years, with the benchmark Dutch TTF contract down 3.1% to 55.90 euros a megawatt hour. "The rally in European gas prices took a breather amid concerns by traders that the recent gains were overdone," ANZ Research analysts say. "Nevertheless, the issues which have been driving prices higher remain intact." Cold weather and low wind speeds have significantly increased fuel demand in recent weeks, leading to faster-than-expected depletion of storage facilities and raising concerns over summer refill rates. Meanwhile, the European Commission is considering a temporary cap on EU gas prices due to their recent surge, the Financial Times reports. (giulia.petroni@wsj.com)

0410 ET - Oil prices retreat in early trade following reports of a large U.S. crude stockpiles build. Brent crude is down 1% to $76.24 a barrel, while WTI falls 1.1% to $72.50 a barrel. U.S. crude oil inventories rose by 9.04 million barrels last week against expectations of a 2.4-million-barrel rise, according to reports citing figures from the American Petroleum Institute ahead of official data later on Wednesday. "If confirmed by the Energy Information Administration, this would be the biggest inventory build in a year," ING analysts say. Meanwhile, the EIA slightly lifted its forecast for U.S. production while keeping its demand estimates unchanged. The market now awaits monthly reports from OPEC and the International Energy Agency for more cues on supply and demand trends. (giulia.petroni@wsj.com)

0250 ET - European utilities are likely to be perceived as meaningful losers from a ceasefire between Ukraine and Russia, especially those in the U.K. and Northern Europe, J.P. Morgan analysts say. Investors could infer that Russia would resume selling pipeline gas to Europe again, putting downward pressure on European gas and power prices, they write in a research note. That situation could offer an entry point for equities such as Engie and RWE, they note. The restoration of pipeline flows from Russia might not be immediate or significant because of a number of infrastructure constraints, legal obstacles and numerous pendingarbitration cases between Gazprom and former European counterparts in gas contracts, the analysts say. Enel and Endesa could outperform in the near future because they sell more power than they produce, the analysts add. (cristina.gallardo@wsj.com)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250212011420:0/)
