---
title: "BP Touts 'New Beginning,' Fundamental Change in Strategy — 2nd Update"
date: "2025-02-11 18:40:00"
summary: "By Adam Whittaker and Jenny StrasburgBP will reset its strategy with a new direction for the oil major, days after reports that activist hedge fund Elliott Management has taken a stake in the company with plans to push for changes to boost shareholder returns.While neither news of the shareholding, nor..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Adam Whittaker and Jenny Strasburg

BP will reset its strategy with a new direction for the oil major, days after reports that activist hedge fund Elliott Management has taken a stake in the company with plans to push for changes to boost shareholder returns.

While neither news of the shareholding, nor Elliott's plans for the company have been confirmed, BP's Chief Executive Murray Auchincloss is expected to jettison his predecessors low carbon strategy in favor of core oil-and-gas assets.

"We now plan to fundamentally reset our strategy and drive further improvements in performance, all in service of growing cash flow and returns," Auchincloss said, adding that the new direction for the company will be put to shareholders at the capital markets day on Feb. 26.

Auchincloss in a brief interview Tuesday morning declined to comment on specific shareholders or what he referred to as speculation about Elliott.

He said BP will lay out a "fundamental reset of strategy and a new beginning" when it updates investors.

Auchincloss said he has been speaking with shareholders regularly since he took on the CEO role permanently in early 2024. "It's an evolving thing over the past 12 months, and I feel decent support," he said.

The comprehensive update will build upon last year's efforts to reshape its portfolio--which now includes new hydrocarbon projects in the Gulf of Mexico and Iraq--while dedicating less capital to low-carbon assets, the company said.

Auchincloss's predecessor Bernard Looney had tried to steer the oil company toward a cleaner, low-carbon future. He set a target to cut oil-and-gas output this decade by 40% from 2019 levels and invested heavily in wind, solar and electric-vehicle charging.

As Looney was removed in September 2023 over a failure to disclose details about past relationships with colleagues, Auchincloss was widely viewed as a continuity candidate.

While Auchincloss rolled back some of Looney's decisions--including abandoning the 40% target--he hadn't fundamentally changed the businesses strategy.

BP's valuation relative to its European and U.S. peers has fallen and its heavy expenditure on low-carbon assets have left the business leveraged and struggling to maintain shareholder returns.

The Wall Street Journal reported on Sunday that Elliott had built a stake in BP and will push for transformational changes to improve the company's performance, according to people familiar with the investment.

The U.S. hedge fund is known for pressuring companies to fire management, break apart and spin off businesses, all with the goal of increasing shareholder returns.

Elliott could force BP to reorganize its business and make changes to its board with the possible removal of Chairman Helge Lund, Jefferies analysts wrote in a note on Monday.

Other options that Elliott could be considering include asset disposals or spinoffs, or seeking a bid for the company, according to AJ Bell.

"Breaking up the business might seem logical to Elliott as it is oil and gas production which delivers the cash flow to help pay the bills and fund dividends," the brokerage's investment director, Russ Mould, wrote earlier this week. A switch of its main stock market listing to the U.S. could even be on the cards, although that might be politically complicated, he added.

In fourth-quarter earnings marked by weak refining margins, lower seasonal volumes and higher costs associated with its turnaround activity, BP reported lower-than-expected profit.

Underlying replacement cost profit--a similar metric to net income that U.S. oil companies report--was $1.17 billion for the fourth quarter. This compared with $1.26 billion analysts had expected, according to a company-compiled consensus, and $2.27 billion reported in the third quarter.

Cash flow from operations was $7.43 billion compared with the $6.76 billion in the previous quarter. It reported a $2 billion net loss compared with a profit of $200 million the prior quarter as the business booked $1.5 billion worth of impairments.

While BP confirmed Tuesday it would launch a $1.75 billion quarterly share buyback, it said it would review its 2025 target and announce its expectations as part of its capital markets day.

BP's European peers have maintained buybacks and hiked dividends despite weak oil prices and refining margins, as cash-flow generation remains high. In recent weeks, London-listed rival Shell said it would buy back shares worth $3.5 billion while France's TotalEnergies set a $2 billion quarterly share buyback target for 2025.

BP's shares were up 0.2% to 466 pence in mid-morning trade in Europe.

Write to Adam Whittaker at adam.whittaker@wsj.com and Jenny Strasburg at jenny.strasburg@wsj.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250211002524:0/)
