---
title: "Avient Announces Quarterly Dividend"
date: "2025-02-11 06:15:00"
summary: "Avient Announces Quarterly DividendPR NewswireCLEVELAND, Feb. 10, 2025CLEVELAND, Feb. 10, 2025 /PRNewswire/ — The Board of Directors of Avient Corporation , an innovator of materials solutions, has declared a quarterly cash dividend of twenty-seven cents ($0.27) per share on the common stock outstanding, to be paid on April 4, 2025,..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Avient Announces Quarterly Dividend

PR Newswire

CLEVELAND, Feb. 10, 2025

CLEVELAND, Feb. 10, 2025 /PRNewswire/ — The Board of Directors of Avient Corporation , an innovator of materials solutions, has declared a quarterly cash dividend of twenty-seven cents ($0.27) per share on the common stock outstanding, to be paid on April 4, 2025, to stockholders of record on March 18, 2025.

About Avient

Our purpose at Avient Corporation is to be an innovator of materials solutions that help our customers succeed, while enabling a sustainable world. Our local touch and customer engagement, combined with our global presence, allows us to serve customers with agility. We harness the collective strength of 9,000 employees worldwide to collaborate and build on each other's ideas. In doing so, we innovate solutions that help our customers overcome their challenges or capitalize on opportunities provided by the fast-changing world and secular trends. Our expanding portfolio of offerings includes colorants, advanced composites, functional additives, engineered materials, and Dyneema(R), the world's strongest fiber(TM). By intersecting our broad portfolio of technologies with the product roadmaps of our customers, we help create differentiated and high-performance products that make the world better and more sustainable. Visit www.avient.com to learn more.

View original content to download multimedia:https://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/avient-announces-quarterly-dividend-302372795.html

SOURCE Avient Corporation

/CONTACT: Investor Relations Contact: Giuseppe (Joe) Di Salvo, Vice President, Treasurer and Investor Relations, Avient Corporation, +1 440-930-1921, giuseppe.disalvo@avient.com; Media Contact: Kyle G. Rose, Vice President, Corporate Communications, Avient Corporation, +1 440-930-3162, kyle.rose@avient.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250210011647:0/)
