---
title: "Intel Stock Rises Following Talk of Factory Spinoff — WSJ"
date: "2025-02-13 04:54:00"
summary: "By Asa FitchIntel's stock rose after an analyst reported discussions about a potential factory partnership with the world's largest contract chip-maker, Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co.In a note, Baird cited discussions in the Asian supply chain about TSMC potentially sending engineers to one of Intel's advanced chip factories to apply their..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Asa Fitch

Intel's stock rose after an analyst reported discussions about a potential factory partnership with the world's largest contract chip-maker, Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co.

In a note, Baird cited discussions in the Asian supply chain about TSMC potentially sending engineers to one of Intel's advanced chip factories to apply their know-how and ensure its viability. That factory could then be spun off from Intel and run by TSMC under the companies' joint ownership, the note said, and receive U.S. government funding.

Intel's shares rose more than 6% following the note, a day after a speech in Paris by Vice President JD Vance touting U.S.-made chips.

Baird's note said there was no confirmation of the deal and the potential completion could be lengthy. Intel didn't immediately respond and TSMC declined to comment.

Intel has struggled in recent years after falling behind TSMC and South Korea's Samsung Electronics in the race to make the most powerful chips with the smallest transistors. A multiyear turnaround effort under Chief Executive Pat Gelsinger faltered in December when he was ousted.

Gelsinger pushed to vastly expand Intel's American chip-making operations, funded in part by 2022's Chips Act, which allocated grants for U.S. plants. Intel was the largest recipient of grants under the program.

This item is part of a Wall Street Journal live coverage event. The full stream can be found by searching P/WSJL (WSJ Live Coverage).

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250212011928:0/)
