---
title: "Steel stocks cheer Trump's tariffs as companies combat 'unfairly priced' imports"
date: "2025-02-11 08:09:00"
summary: "By Tomi KilgoreNucor CEO says tariffs can level the playing field for U.S.-based companies, but Alcoa's CEO isn't quite so upbeatShares of U.S.-based steelmakers were seeing broad gains Monday, as investors believed that President Trump's actions to place tariffs on all steel and aluminum imports would level the playing field..."
categories:
  - "MarketWatch"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "MarketWatch"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Tomi Kilgore

Nucor CEO says tariffs can level the playing field for U.S.-based companies, but Alcoa's CEO isn't quite so upbeat

Shares of U.S.-based steelmakers were seeing broad gains Monday, as investors believed that President Trump's actions to place tariffs on all steel and aluminum imports would level the playing field and boost demand for the metal produced domestically.

Trump's announcement over the weekend came a few days after he helped trigger a selloff in U.S. Steel Corp. shares (X), by saying he would allow Japan's Nippon Steel Corp. (NPSCY) (JP:5401) to "invest heavily" in the company but not buy it.

U.S. Steel's stock rose 3.6% in morning trading Monday, after dropping 5.8% on Friday.

Elsewhere, shares of Nucor Corp. (NUE) jumped 5.4%, Steel Dynamics Inc.'s stock (STLD) advanced 5% and Cleveland-Cliffs Inc. shares (CLF) shot up 12.5%.

Futures for hot-rolled coil steel (HRN00) were charging up 6.1% to a 10-month high, while the SPDR S&P Metals and Mining ETF XME was up 3.2% toward a two-month high, with 33 of 34 equity components gaining ground.

As Nucor Chief Executive Leon Topalian said in January during the company's earnings call with analysts, the tariffs implemented in 2018 during Trump's first administration "created some positive momentum" in the industry, by creating "a more level playing field for the United States to compete," according to an AlphaSense transcript.

Jeremy Flack, founder and chief executive of Flack Global Metals, which makes, trades and invests in steel goods, said while he would've preferred to allow Nippon Steel to buy U.S. Steel, he's a proponent of Trump's tariffs, as he believes they will protect the U.S. industry from "unfairly priced steel from other countries."

"We're in a great position to put tariffs on, because we're the largest economy in the world," Flack said in a recent interview with MarketWatch.

He said while domestic steelmakers are building capacity, not enough is made in the U.S. yet to satisfy demand, so the U.S. remains a steel-importing country.

U.S. companies have a lot more capacity in the U.S., they just need "demand to come around" for domestically produced steel.

Shares of aluminum makers were also getting a nice boost, with Alcoa Corp.'s stock (AA) tacking on 2.5%, Century Aluminum Co. shares surging 9.3% and Kaiser Aluminum Corp.'s stock (KALU) climbing 2%.

There was a caveat for Alcoa investors, however.

J.P. Morgan analyst William Peterson pointed out that only 13% of Alcoa's operating smelter capacity is in the U.S., while 40% is in Canada. And of the aluminum produced in Canada, 70% of shipped to the U.S., which would be subject to tariffs.

Alcoa Chief Executive Bill Oplinger said in January that a tariff on Canadian aluminum imports to the U.S. would actually threaten U.S. industrial competitiveness. He estimated that a 25% tariff would lead to $1.5 billion to $2 billion in additional annual costs for U.S. customers.

He said the company would have to reroute supply from its Canadian smelters, which would not benefit its customers.

"If the U.S. government decides to implement new tariffs for strategic purposes, we will work with the administration to protect Alcoa's interests," Oplinger said, according to an AlphaSense transcript.

-Tomi Kilgore

This content was created by MarketWatch, which is operated by Dow Jones & Co. MarketWatch is published independently from Dow Jones Newswires and The Wall Street Journal.

[MarketWatch](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_SN20250210006026:0/)
