---
title: "Third Harmonic Shares Dive As Evaluation of THB335 Begins"
date: "2025-02-11 21:45:00"
summary: "By Denny JacobThird Harmonic Bio shares dived 35% in premarket trading amid a broader evaluation of THB335.Shares were trading around $3.03. The stock is down 50% over the last year.The pharmaceutical products developer said it is initiating a strategic review process to run in parallel with phase 2 readiness activities..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Denny Jacob

Third Harmonic Bio shares dived 35% in premarket trading amid a broader evaluation of THB335.

Shares were trading around $3.03. The stock is down 50% over the last year.

The pharmaceutical products developer said it is initiating a strategic review process to run in parallel with phase 2 readiness activities to identify opportunities to maximize shareholder value through a strategic transaction and/or business combination. In conjunction with the decision, the company is halting all non THB335-related research and discovery activities and reducing its workforce by about 50%.

"As we evaluate the competitive landscape and current market dynamics, we believe the right thing for our stakeholders is to evaluate a full range of strategic transactions and/or business combinations to maximize value creation across all assets in the company," said Chief Executive Natalie Holles.

The San Francisco company had 30 employees as of Dec. 31, 2023, according to a securities filing.

The company's announcements came as it disclosed data from a Phase 1 clinical trial of THB335.

Third Harmonic said THB335 was generally safe and well tolerated in the single ascending cohorts. It noted there were three subjects in the multiple ascending cohorts with isolated, transient asymptomatic transaminase elevations, with two of the three subjects having received a placebo. The company said it doesn't believe the single transaminase event in the active subject is drug-related.

Elevated transaminase levels, also known as transaminitis, refer to an indication of liver damage or inflammation.

Write to Denny Jacob at denny.jacob@wsj.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250211005499:0/)
