---
title: "Global Forex and Fixed Income Roundup: Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-13 08:31:00"
summary: "The latest Market Talks covering FX and Fixed Income. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.1931 ET - Asian currencies consolidate against the dollar in the morning session as traders digest mixed developments. The U.S. January CPI was stronger than expected, CBA's Kristina Clifton says, noting the USD..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The latest Market Talks covering FX and Fixed Income. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.

1931 ET - Asian currencies consolidate against the dollar in the morning session as traders digest mixed developments. The U.S. January CPI was stronger than expected, CBA's Kristina Clifton says, noting the USD Index has traded in a wide range. However, there's also been news that President Trump and Russian President Putin have agreed to begin negotiating an end to the war in Ukraine, the senior economist and currency strategist adds. USD/KRW edges 0.1% higher to 1,453.60; USD/SGD is 0.1% lower at 1.3525; AUD/USD is little changed at 0.6282. (ronnie.harui@wsj.com)

1914 ET - JGBs fall in the morning Tokyo session, tracking overnight price declines in U.S. Treasurys. While the Bank of Japan is slated to buy a wide range of JGBs today, the operation's support to the Japanese government bond market could be limited by the sharp rise in U.S. long-dated yields, strategists at Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities say. The 5-year JGB yield rises 2bps to 1.020%, its highest intraday level since October 2010; the 10-year yield rises 3bps to 1.370%, the highest intraday level since April 2010. (ronnie.harui@wsj.com)

1903 ET - The USD index is currently trading just below 108 points, roughly where it was just over 24 hours ago. It initially rose sharply because the U.S. CPI for January was stronger than expected on both the headline and core measures. However, USD unwound its increase later in the session helped by news that U.S. President Trump and Russian President Putin have agreed to start negotiating an end to the war in Ukraine, says Kristina Clifton, economist at CBA. Markets have pushed out the timing of the next FOMC interest-rate cut even further to December, compared to September before the CPI release, she notes. (james.glynn@wsj.com; @JamesGlynnWSJ)

1855 ET - The Aussie dollar-U.S. dollar pair is near 0.6280, after trading in a wide 70 point range in the U.S. trading session. The 0.6290 level is proving to be firm Fibonacci-related technical resistance for AUD/USD, says Krisitina Clifton, currency strategist at CBA. AUD/USD will likely follow the USD trend until the Reserve Bank of Australia's interest rate announcement on Tuesday, she adds. A 25 basis point cash rate cut, if delivered, will be the first since the Covid pandemic. Clifton says that if the RBA does not cut next week it would be a shock to the currency market and AUD/USD could lift by around 1 U.S. cent. (james.glynn@wsj.com ; @JamesGlynnWSJ)

1843 ET - Japanese stocks may rise as a weaker yen raises hopes for earnings growth. Nikkei futures are up 0.6% at 39210 on the SGX. USD/JPY is at 154.41, up from 153.64 as of Wednesday's Tokyo stock market close. Investors are focusing on earnings as well as U.S. trade policies. Daiwa House Industry and Sumitomo Forestry are scheduled to announce their results later in the day. The Nikkei Stock Average rose 0.4% to 38963.70 on Wednesday. (kosaku.narioka@wsj.com)

1824 ET - It's highly likely that the Reserve Bank of New Zealand will cut the official cash rate by 50 basis points to 3.75% at its policy meeting next week but project a slower pace of easing after February, says Westpac economist Kelly Eckhold. Still, there's also an outside chance the RBNZ cuts the OCR by more to try and bring the OCR to neutral more quickly, he says. There's potential for the RBNZ to outline a dovish scenario that signals its intention to move the OCR to neutral more quickly by signalling a 3% OCR by mid-2025. This would signal a high chance of a further 50 basis point cut at the April review, Eckhold says. (james.glynn@wsj.com; @JamesGlynnWSJ)

1819 ET - Consumer inflation came in hotter than expected, but Goldman Sachs economists think the data still point to a decline in the 12-month readings of the Fed's preferred inflation gauge, the personal consumption expenditures price index. Based on the CPI, Goldman thinks that headline PCE inflation was up 0.38% in January, with core PCE rising 0.45% month over month. That is still an elevated rate but would bring the 12-month increase in headline PCE down to 2.5%, from 2.6% in December, and the 12-month core PCE inflation rate down to 2.6%, from 2.8% in December, Goldman says. Analysts will be able to estimate PCE inflation with more certainty after January PPI figures land Thursday morning. PCE inflation data are due Feb. 28. (matt.grossman@wsj.com, @mattgrossman)

1654 ET - Cryptocurrency drove nearly half of Robinhood's transaction-based revenue in 4Q, the online brokerage says. Crypto volumes expanded four-fold and higher crypto valuations boosted total assets under custody. The digital currency's power in Robinhood's financials is something to watch as the regulatory environment eases under the Trump administration and the company continues to make investments in the sector. It added seven new crypto assets in the U.S. last year and agreed to buy the crypto exchange Bitstamp, which is set to be finalized in the first half of 2025. Shares up 13% to $62.99 in after hours trading. (katherine.hamilton@wsj.com)

1534 ET - Treasury yields hold on to their gains as markets brace for a long period of unchanged interest rates. January CPI was higher than expected, although seasonal factors might have been at play. Markets are now pricing 30% odds that there will be no rate cuts this year, up from 20% yesterday, according to CME. Odds of only one cut are 40%. On Thursday, weekly jobless claims are expected to decline to 215,000 from 219,000, according to a Wall Street Journal survey. PPI inflation is forecast to accelerate. The 10-year yield gains a tenth of a percentage point, to 4.636%, its largest one-day rise since December. The two-year gains 0.075 p.p., to 4.365%. (paulo.trevisani@wsj.com; @ptrevisani)

1526 ET - Chip-card technology was supposed to cut down on fraud when it was rolled out in the mid-2010s. But roughly a decade of evidence shows that the tech has only enabled limited progress on fighting fraud, economist Fumiko Hayashi of the Kansas City Fed finds. Fraud rates on dual-message payment networks (such as Visa, Mastercard and Discover) have in general failed to decline, or have even increased, despite broad adoption of chip debit cards. (The research excludes prepaid debit cards.) Fraud trends are a bit better for single-message payment networks, which require the user to enter a PIN at the point of sale in addition to inserting the chip. Understanding why this has happened will require more research, Hayashi writes. (matt.grossman@wsj.com, @mattgrossman)

1500 ET - Deutsche Bank's U.S. economists maintain their call that the Fed will not choose to cut rates in 2025 after the hot January CPI data. In their base case, the DB team now thinks that the March Fed dot plot will show less inclination to cut rates this year, and that the June dot plot will erase the penciled-in cuts from the current 4.25% to 4.5% target. Rate hikes aren't out of the question but "the bar is likely to be high," the DB team writes. Hikes would likely require that, first, "downside risks to the labor market need to be extinguished," and, second, "core PCE inflation would need to accelerate towards or above 3% in year-over-year terms." Core PCE was up by 2.8% in the 12 months through December. (matt.grossman@wsj.com, @mattgrossman)

1417 ET - The uptick on core inflation last month "is less alarming than it first appears," and a Fed cut this summer remains possible, Pantheon's Sam Tombs writes. He says seasonal factors make it more complicated to extrapolate one month's data. He says the February data will give a better sense of how the underlying trend is evolving. Tombs expects the PCE gauge, to be released later this month, to edge down to 2.7% in January, from 2.8% in December. "If as we expect, the trend continues to slow over the coming months, we still think the FOMC will ease policy again in June." (paulo.trevisani@wsj.com)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250212016744:0/)
