---
title: "PZ Cussons to Meet Profit Expectations After Profit Swing"
date: "2025-02-11 15:22:00"
summary: "By Michael SusinPZ Cussons said it is on track to meet fiscal 2025 expectations, after it swung to first-half profit following a recent stabilization of the Nigerian naira.The consumer-goods company--which houses the Imperial Leather soap and Morning Fresh dishwashing liquid brands--on Tuesday reported a pretax profit for the year ended..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Michael Susin

PZ Cussons said it is on track to meet fiscal 2025 expectations, after it swung to first-half profit following a recent stabilization of the Nigerian naira.

The consumer-goods company--which houses the Imperial Leather soap and Morning Fresh dishwashing liquid brands--on Tuesday reported a pretax profit for the year ended Nov. 30 of 6.4 million pounds ($7.9 million) compared with a loss of 94.2 million pounds the same period a year ago.

Adjusted operating profit--the company's preferred metric, which strips out exceptional and other one-off items--fell to 27.0 million pounds from 30.6 million pounds.

Revenue fell 10% to 249.3 million pounds. On a like-for-like basis, it grew 7.1% driven by stronger pricing in Africa and growth in U.K. and Indonesia.

PZ Cussons added that performance continued to be impacted by the depreciation of the Nigerian naira. However, the more recent stabilization of the exchange rate and operational interventions reduced its exposure to further currency depreciation.

The company said it is on track to meet fiscal 2025 profit expectations, without disclosing any figures, as trends observed in the first half of the year continued into the second half.

"Performance to the end of January has been in line with our expectations and we expect group like-for-like revenue growth trends to continue in the balance of the year," the company added.

The board declared a dividend of 1.50 pence a share, flat from a year ago.

Write to Michael Susin at michael.susin@wsj.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250211001104:0/)
