---
title: "Global Forex and Fixed Income Roundup: Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-11 04:45:00"
summary: "The latest Market Talks covering FX and Fixed Income. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.1545 ET - Treasury yields are mixed ahead of Chair Powell's Congress hearings and U.S. inflation data later this week. Powell is scheduled to speak to senators tomorrow and address the House on..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The latest Market Talks covering FX and Fixed Income. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.

1545 ET - Treasury yields are mixed ahead of Chair Powell's Congress hearings and U.S. inflation data later this week. Powell is scheduled to speak to senators tomorrow and address the House on Wednesday. Markets are still uncertain about how tariffs and other Trump policies will impact inflation, an issue that could be raised during Powell's testimony. CPI is expected to change little on Wednesday and PPI is forecast to accelerate on Thursday, according to a Wall Street Journal survey with economists. The 10-year yield rises 0.009 percentage point to 4.492% and the two-year falls 0.012 p.p. to 4.265%. (paulo.trevisani@wsj.com; @ptrevisani)

1456 ET - Tariffs could impact consumer prices faster than they did in the past, WisdomTree's Sam Rines says. "If you had asked me 10 years ago how quickly the pass-through would happen, I would have said...18 to 24 months." But after passing on to consumers increased costs caused by tariffs from Trump's first term, the war in Ukraine and other recent shocks, companies should now be able to adjust prices in three to nine months, Rines says. They "have an excuse to raise prices, they've done it before...they'll do it again and they'll likely be successful simply because the consumer knows there's not really another option." (paulo.trevisani@wsj.com; @ptrevisani)

1440 ET - The Fed has gone from data-dependent to D.C.-dependent, WisdomTree's Kevin Flanagan says. After the central bank cut interest rates by a full percentage point last year, it can now wait until President Trump policies materialize and their impact is felt on inflation, Flanagan says. The Fed's goal is to keep rates at a neutral point, where they put a lid on inflation without destroying jobs. "I think that is going to be a recurring theme that they would like to get to neutral but there's no urgency to get there," Flanagan says. He says the topic may be brought up during Chair Powell's hearings in Congress tomorrow and Wednesday. (paulo.trevisani@wsj.com; @ptrevisani)

1256 ET - Canada is the biggest foreign supplier of steel and aluminum to the US market. However, the fallout from 25% US tariffs on those two commodities, as President Trump has promised, would be minimal for the Canadian economy, Capital Economics says. "The impact on GDP should be limited," the firm says, noting Canadian steel and aluminum exports to US account for just 1% of GDP. CapEcon says it doesn't believe Ottawa will do much in terms of retaliation, although noting that public-opinion polls show widespread support for taking a tough approach against the Trump administration. Given that US exports accounts for one-fifth of Canada GDP, "any serious [retaliation] measures would be Canada cutting off its nose to spite its face." (Paul.Vieira@wsj.com, @paulvieira)

1237 ET - Treasury Secretary Scott Bessent spoke with Canadian Finance Minister Dominic LeBlanc, according to a summary of the call from the Treasury Department. The readout indicates Bessent stressed the importance of the U.S. and Canada "to combat security threats and engage on economic issues." The reference to security threats likely refers to border security, and stemming the flow of migrants and illegal drugs, like fentanyl, into the U.S. Trump has threatened a 25% tariff on all nonenergy imports from Canada unless Ottawa takes steps to fortify border security and deterring fentanyl trafficking. Spokesmen for LeBlanc did not immediately respond about the phone call with Bessent. (paul.vieira@wsj.com; @paulvieira)

1112 ET - Sterling's prospects remain relatively good as the Bank of England is likely to maintain a cautious approach to cutting interest rates, Ebury economist Enrique Diaz-Alvarez says in a note. The BOE cut rates by 25 basis points Thursday with two officials preferring a 50 basis-point reduction. It signalled concerns about the economic outlook as it slashed its 2025 growth forecast. However, sticky inflation and elevated wage growth could limit the scope of future cuts, Diaz-Alvarez says. "We think that markets may be overstating the degree to which the BOE will be able to cut rates this year as the Monetary Policy Committee itself stressed that gradual cuts remain the way forward." (renae.dyer@wsj.com)

1100 ET - Consumers deliver a split take on the labor market in the New York Fed's latest survey. Earnings growth expectations over the next year increase slightly to 3%--but this number has held relatively steady for the past 12 months in the survey. Expectations that unemployment will rise over the next year decline by 0.6 percentage points to 34%, showing optimism. On the other hand, the mean perceived probability of losing one's job over the next year increases by 2.3 percentage points, to 14.2%, a more downbeat result. But finally, there was also an increase in the perceived probability of finding a new job in the next three months if one lost one's current job. That figure rises by 1.3 percentage points to 51.5%.(matt.grossman@wsj.com, @mattgrossman)

1100 ET - The New York Fed's consumer survey's inflation-expectations gauge holds steady at a modest level. Consumers in the survey see inflation of 3% over the next one and three years, unchanged from the previous reading. That is good news as another major consumer survey, run by the University of Michigan, has showed a pronounced uptick in inflation expectations around the start of the second Trump administration. In the NY Fed survey, there was a slight increase of 0.3 percentage point in consumers' five-year inflation expectations--which also now stand at 3%. (matt.grossman@wsj.com; @mattgrossman)

1056 ET - The European Central Bank needs to consider several risks involved in the potential creation of a central bank digital euro, ING strategist Marine Leleux says in a note. A large deposit outflow from the banking sector towards a digital euro would significantly affect European credit institutions, she says. "This could spill over to the real economy through a reduction in banks' lending capacity." The banking sector could also see additional costs related to the implementation of a digital currency. Most risks would materialize upon a sudden and significant adoption of a digital euro. While the adoption rate of other existing central bank digital currencies has been limited, estimating the uptake of a digital euro is challenging. (renae.dyer@wsj.com)

1049 ET - Corporate bonds issued by companies within U.S. tech, auto and basic materials sectors have a higher exposure to foreign revenue and are more vulnerable to tariffs implemented by President Trump, BNP Paribas credit strategists say in a note. Issuers within services sectors, however, such as healthcare and cruise companies, have lower foreign sales and are better placed to avoid the negative impacts of tariffs, the strategists say. (miriam.mukuru@wsj.com)

1039 ET - Prices of euro-denominated corporate bonds exposed to potential U.S. tariffs don't sufficiently reflect the risk of such tariffs, BNP Paribas credit strategists say in a note. The 'Tariff Risk Premium' which measures the spread between tariff-sensitive names and euro non-financial bonds, shows that only modest risk is priced in, they say. After Trump's first announcement on plans for tariffs on goods from Canada, Mexico and China following his inauguration, euro credit spreads widened in line with macro weakness, but "without much differentiation." (miriam.mukuru@wsj.com)

1014 ET - Hydro One's rich valuation keeps BofA Securities bearish on the stock, despite praise for the Canadian power company. BofA reinstates coverage with an underperform call and C$44 price target, noting the current valuation premium based on expected 2026 EPS is 47% higher than the next-highest premium of the companies it covers. It says catalysts for any multiple expansion from here are further-dated than its 12-month price objective. Still, BofA argues Hydro One is well run and has among the strongest earnings and rate base growth visibility in the sector. Shares now down 0.6% at C$45.29. (robb.stewart@wsj.com)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250210009218:0/)
