---
title: "USAID Workers Cannot Be Placed on Leave, Federal Judge Rules — Barrons.com"
date: "2025-02-08 05:55:00"
summary: "By Anita HamiltonA federal judge in the U.S. District Court in Washington, D.C., issued a temporary restraining order on the administration's plan to put thousands of employees of the U.S. Agency for International Development on leave at midnight tonight.Placing those workers on leave was one of a series of moves..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Anita Hamilton

A federal judge in the U.S. District Court in Washington, D.C., issued a temporary restraining order on the administration's plan to put thousands of employees of the U.S. Agency for International Development on leave at midnight tonight.

Placing those workers on leave was one of a series of moves aimed at dismantling the agency since President Donald Trump took office. Earlier Friday, he called for a shutdown of the United States Agency for International Development on Truth Social.

The order by Judge Carl J. Nichols, which reporters at Politico and D.C.-based news station WUSA posted to X, came a day after Democracy Forward and Public Citizen Litigation Group filed suit on behalf of two labor unions representing federal workers. The two unions are the 800,000-member American Federation of Government Employees and the American Foreign Service Association that represent thousands of foreign service officers working for USAID.

Judge Nichols says he will be issuing the "very limited" temporary restraining order before midnight tonight.

The 10,000-person agency that provides disaster relief and humanitarian aid across the globe has been a target of Trump's cost-cutting efforts. "USAID is driving the radical left crazy, and there is nothing they can do about it because the way in which the money has been spent, so much of it fraudulently, is totally unexplainable," Trump posted on his social media site Friday morning. "The corruption is at levels rarely seen before. Close it down!"

By end of day Friday, "all USAID direct hire personnel will be placed on administrative leave globally, with the exception of designated personnel responsible for mission-critical functions, core leadership and specially designated programs," according to a notice posted to the USAID website. The agency is working on a plan to return all personnel posted outside the U.S. back to the country within 30 days. Those who wish to stay abroad can do so but the agency may not arrange for their return travel after then.

Trump halted its funding for 90 days in a Jan. 20 executive order while officials assessed whether USAID was disbursing funds in a manner consistent with U.S. foreign policy. Secretary of State Marco Rubio is now its acting administrator, replacing Biden-appointee Samantha Power.

"We spent the weekend feeding USAID into the wood chipper," Tesla CEO Elon Musk, who is heading up the government's Department of Government Efficiency, posted on X earlier this week.

The ruling is the latest in a series of setbacks for the administration, which is looking to shave as much as a trillion dollars in federal spending with its cuts. On Thursday, a federal judge ordered a temporary pause of the administration's deferred resignation program offered to most federal civilian employees. An earlier move to freeze some $3 trillion in federal grants and loans has also been put on hold.

While the administration could ultimately prevail in such efforts, the rulings have slowed the momentum that the flurry of executive actions in the first week appeared to portend.

Write to editors@barrons.com

This content was created by Barron's, which is operated by Dow Jones & Co. Barron's is published independently from Dow Jones Newswires and The Wall Street Journal.

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250207010901:0/)
