---
title: "Global Equities Roundup: Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-10 17:08:00"
summary: "The latest Market Talks covering Equities. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.0908 GMT - Innovent Biologics' near-term stock performance may depend on the approval and sales of its potential blockbuster drug Mazdutide in 1H2025, according to Deutsche Bank Research analyst Cyrus Ng in a commentary. The biotech..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The latest Market Talks covering Equities. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.

0908 GMT - Innovent Biologics' near-term stock performance may depend on the approval and sales of its potential blockbuster drug Mazdutide in 1H2025, according to Deutsche Bank Research analyst Cyrus Ng in a commentary. The biotech company's share price has rebounded 14% since January 25, outperforming its peers' average of 4.9% during the same period, Ng says. However, revenue growth slowed in Q4 compared to the previous quarter, although 2024 product sales remain in line with expectations, the analyst notes. Ng maintains a buy rating and a target price of HK$49.00. Shares were last up 0.3% at HK$36.35. (tracy.qu@wsj.com)

0905 GMT - Malaysia's Kuala Lumpur Composite Index ended 0.1% lower at 1589.95. The local market could experience a pull-back due to profit-taking early this week, following data signaling rising U.S. inflation and President Trump's tougher tariff stance, TA Securities analyst Stephen Soo said in a note. However, select stocks could benefit from supply-chain diversification amid ongoing U.S.-China trade tensions, providing rotational buying opportunities to sustain recovery momentum. Soo pegs the KLCI's support at 1550 and resistance at 1605. Among decliners, SD Guthrie was 2.2% lower and MISC Bhd. lost 2.0%. Meanwhile, Axiata Group added 3.2% and Sime Darby rose 1.8%. Malaysian markets will be closed Tuesday for the Thaipusam holiday. (yingxian.wong@wsj.com)

0856 GMT - Public Bank's dividend yield is forecast to exceed 5% from 2025 based on organic growth alone, with further room to raise the payout due to excess capital, CIMB Securities analyst Rachel Huang says in a note. Basel III rule changes could boost the lender's Common Equity Tier 1 ratio, implying room to right-size its capital, she says. Despite a MYR464 million goodwill impairment from its Hong Kong unit, the impact on Public Bank's estimated 2025 ROE and book value should be minimal, she says. The lender's reversal of pre-emptive provisions could further support dividend growth, she adds. CIMB maintains a buy rating on Public Bank and keeps its target price at MYR5.60. Shares are unchanged at MYR4.45. (yingxian.wong@wsj.com)

0849 GMT - Meiji Yasuda Life's deal with Legal & General America is expected to positively impact the Japanese insurer's credit profile, Fitch Ratings analysts say. The deal takes into account the strong position of L&G's Banner Life in the steadily expanding U.S. individual life insurance market and pension risk transfer business, as well as improved global diversification for Meiji Yasuda, the analysts note. Fitch expects the impact on Meiji Yasuda's capital adequacy and financial leverage to be minimal and manageable, citing its consolidated net assets and cash equivalents. The group's strong position in the Japanese life insurance market should also help maintain overall sound credit fundamentals. (fabiana.negrinochoa@wsj.com)

0844 GMT - Elliott Management could force BP to reorganize its business and make changes to its board after it was reported the hedge fund has built a stake in the British energy giant, Jefferies analysts Giacomo Romeo and Kai Ye Loh write. Elliott could look to remove BP Chairman Helge Lund at the next AGM in late April or early May, the analysts write. Increasing shareholder returns by maximizing free-cash-flow generation via reduced capex and increased divestments would be a key goal, they add. It may also seek to refocus BP's strategy on traditional oil and gas activities and reduce exposure to low-carbon assets, they add. Shares trade up 7.4% at 465 pence. This is BP's best one-day rise since summer 2023. (adam.whittaker@wsj.com)

0842 GMT - DBS Group's strong dividend yield will support its share price, Carmen Lee of OCBC Investment Research writes in a note. The Singapore lender delivered another year of record profit, raised its ordinary dividend and announced an additional capital return for 2025, Lee highlights. That reflects an attractive dividend yield of about 6.7%, higher than most Singapore dollar income-yielding assets, Lee says. Despite a more challenging external environment due to tariff threats and possible policy changes by major economies, Asia is likely to be more resilient than other regions, and DBS remains attractive, Lee says. She raises the fair value estimate on the bank to S$50.00 from S$43.60 while keeping a buy rating. Shares are 1.8% higher at S$45.50. (kimberley.kao@wsj.com)

0831 GMT - CAB Payments will likely make a strategic pivot this year following the departure of senior leadership members, Shore Capital's analyst Vivek Raja says. CFO and executive director Richard Hallett stepped down on Monday, following the departure of other senior management in the past year. Shore Capital maintains its buy recommendation on the stock, expecting the London-listed fintech to return to a meaningful growth trajectory, Raja says. Shares are down 1.3% at 0.62 pounds. (cristina.gallardo@wsj.com)

0827 GMT - Chinese automakers may take the lead in incorporating AI innovations and democratizing these technologies in mass-market cars, said Paul Gong, UBS head of China autos research. "After the DeepSeek surprise during the Chinese New Year, intelligence initiatives could remain a key theme among auto stocks," he says. Traditional carmakers will likely announce more collaborations with AI companies in the coming months ride the momentum, he adds. Gong believes that the technological edge in the auto sector will likely shift from electrification to intelligence with rising awareness and adoption of AI. He notes that smart cockpits powered by AI algorithms could provide a sustainable competitive edge, helping automakers gain market share. Meanwhile, AI could gradually lead to higher manufacturing productivity, boosting carmakers' margins in the long term, he adds. (sherry.qin@wsj.com)

0824 GMT - Hong Kong shares closed higher, supported by tech stocks. Investors are digesting Trump's plan to impose additional tariffs on all imports of steel and aluminum. Alibaba Health led the day's gains, adding 9.2%, while Meituan rose 5.6%. Alibaba Group and Baidu were 5.5% and 3.7% higher, respectively. Dongfeng Motor surged 26% on news of a potential restructuring with another state-owned enterprise. Among the top decliners, Zhongsheng Group fell 1.45% and Li Ning was 1.2% lower. The benchmark Hang Seng Index closed 1.8% higher at 21521.98 and the Hang Seng Tech Index rose 2.65%.(jiahui.huang@wsj.com; @ivy\_jiahuihuang)

0815 GMT - Meiji Yasuda's $2.3 billion deal with Legal & General looks set to boost the Japanese insurer's profits and premiums, CreditSights analysts say. Acquiring L&G's U.S. protection business and 20% of its pension risk transfer business will double Meiji Yasuda's overseas insurance premiums to more than Y1 trillion, with core profits set to top Y100 billion versus Y91.4 billion predeal, Trung Tran and Larissa Knepper say in a report. The deal is in line with the company's plan to expand market share and enhance asset management, boosting overseas operations and profit stability, they add. "We continue to view Meiji Yasuda as an excellent credit with a strong market presence in Japan, good geographical diversification and high solvency underpinned by a clear capital management strategy," they say, keeping an outperform recommendation on the insurer. (fabiana.negrinochoa@wsj.com)

0812 GMT - DeepSeek's success could boost demand for Nvidia's products despite the chip maker's stock being among the hardest hit initially, Tiger Brokers market strategist James Ooi writes in a note. DeepSeek is viewed as AI's Sputnik moment, as the Chinese AI startup appears to have shaken U.S. AI dominance by achieving comparable performance at a fraction of the costs incurred by its American counterparts, he says. AI software stocks should benefit from DeepSeek's success as lower computing costs would open up new opportunities, Ooi says. It could also create higher demand for Nvidia's GPUs despite initial fears that lower-cost AI models may reduce the need for high-end chips, he adds. (jiahui.huang@wsj.com; @ivy\_jiahuihuang)

0758 GMT - Parkway Life REIT is likely on a solid growth trajectory, DBS Group Research analysts say in a research report, as they maintain its buy rating on the REIT. The full earnings impact of the REIT's recent acquisition of a portfolio of French nursing homes is expected to emerge this year, the analysts say. Also, the rental upside for the REIT's Singapore hospitals should kick in from 2026, thanks to their master-lease renewal. Moreover, there's potential further upside to its Mount Elizabeth Orchard hospital's revenues post-asset enhancement initiative in 2026. However, DBS trims the unit's target price to S$4.75 from S$4.80 to reflect some adjusted assumptions. Units are 1.0% lower at S$3.94. (ronnie.harui@wsj.com)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250210002129:0/)
