---
title: "Picton Mahoney Asset Management Announces Monthly Distribution for Picton Mahoney Fortified Income Alternative Fund Exchange Traded Fund Units, Picton Mahoney Fortified Special Situations Alternative Fund Exchange Traded Fund Units, Picton Mahoney Fortified Core Bond Fund Exchange Traded Fund Units, Picton Mahoney Fortified Alpha Alternative Fund Exchange Traded Fund Units and Picton Mahoney Fortified Investment Grade Alternative Fund Exchange Traded Fund Units"
date: "2025-02-14 03:41:00"
summary: "Picton Mahoney Asset Management Announces Monthly Distribution for Picton Mahoney Fortified Income Alternative Fund Exchange Traded Fund Units, Picton Mahoney Fortified Special Situations Alternative Fund Exchange Traded Fund Units, Picton Mahoney Fortified Core Bond Fund Exchange Traded Fund Units, Picton Mahoney Fortified Alpha Alternative Fund Exchange Traded Fund Units and..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Picton Mahoney Asset Management Announces Monthly Distribution for Picton Mahoney Fortified Income Alternative Fund Exchange Traded Fund Units, Picton Mahoney Fortified Special Situations Alternative Fund Exchange Traded Fund Units, Picton Mahoney Fortified Core Bond Fund Exchange Traded Fund Units, Picton Mahoney Fortified Alpha Alternative Fund Exchange Traded Fund Units and Picton Mahoney Fortified Investment Grade Alternative Fund Exchange Traded Fund Units

Canada NewsWire

TORONTO, Feb. 13, 2025

TORONTO, Feb. 13, 2025 /CNW/ - Picton Mahoney Asset Management announced today that it has declared the February 2025 monthly cash distribution of $0.0284 per unit for the ETF units ("ETF Units") of the Picton Mahoney Fortified Income Alternative Fund.

Picton Mahoney Asset Management announced today that it has declared the February 2025 monthly cash distribution of $0.0207 per unit for the ETF Units of the Picton Mahoney Fortified Special Situations Alternative Fund.

Picton Mahoney Asset Management announced today that it has declared the February 2025 monthly cash distribution of $0.0226 per unit for the ETF Units of the Picton Mahoney Fortified Core Bond Fund.

Picton Mahoney Asset Management announced today that it has declared the February 2025 monthly cash distribution of $0.0203 per unit for the ETF Units of the Picton Mahoney Fortified Alpha Alternative Fund.

Picton Mahoney Asset Management announced today that it has declared the February 2025 monthly cash distribution of $0.0524 per unit for the ETF units of the Picton Mahoney Fortified Investment Grade Alternative Fund.

Unitholders of record of the ETF Units, at the close of business on February 20, 2025, will receive a per-unit cash distribution payable on February 28, 2025.

About Picton Mahoney Asset Management

Picton Mahoney Asset Management specializes in differentiated investment solutions and rules-based volatility management. Picton Mahoney helps its clients fortify their portfolios based on experience honed over the years through different market cycles and investing environments.

Founded in 2004 and 100% employee-owned, Picton Mahoney is a portfolio management boutique entrusted with over $13.0 billion (as at January 31, 2025) in assets under management. Pioneers of Authentic Hedge(R) investment principles and practices in Canada, the firm offers a full suite of investment solutions, including mutual and alternative funds, to institutional and retail investors across the country.

Commissions, trailing commissions, management fees, performance fees and expenses all may be associated with mutual fund investments. Please read the prospectus before investing. Mutual funds are not guaranteed, their values change frequently, and past performance may not be repeated. Alternative funds can only be purchased through a registered dealer and are available only in those jurisdictions where they may be lawfully offered for sale.

SOURCE Picton Mahoney Asset Management

View original content: http://www.newswire.ca/en/releases/archive/February2025/13/c6785.html

/CONTACT:

For further information please contact: Arthur Galloway, Picton Mahoney Asset Management, Tel: (416) 955-4108, Web site: www.pictonmahoney.com, Email: service@pictonmahoney.com

Copyright CNW Group 2025

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250213013563:0/)
