---
title: "News Highlights: Top Company News of the Day - Tuesday at 5 PM ET"
date: "2025-02-12 06:00:00"
summary: "Super Micro cuts its outlook - but there's a silver lining supporting its stockSuper Micro predicts far more revenue for its next fiscal year than analysts were projecting. The company also expects to submit its delayed annual filing by the Feb. 25 deadline.Zillow Outlook Collides With Subdued Housing MarketZillow Group..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

**Super Micro cuts its outlook - but there's a silver lining supporting its stock**

Super Micro predicts far more revenue for its next fiscal year than analysts were projecting. The company also expects to submit its delayed annual filing by the Feb. 25 deadline.

**Zillow Outlook Collides With Subdued Housing Market**

Zillow Group posted fourth-quarter revenue growth and projected gains would continue despite challenges including high mortgage rates that have dampened the housing market.

**DoorDash's stock rallies as demand forecast tops expectations**

Food-delivery app DoorDash Inc. on Tuesday forecast a key demand metric to come in above Wall Street's expectations for the first quarter, as it adds more grocery stores to its platform to complement its core restaurant business.

**Musk's $97.4 Billion OpenAI Bid Piles Pressure on Sam Altman**

The unsolicited offer for the assets of OpenAI could end up costing CEO Sam Altman, whether he takes it or not.

**Avis Budget CEO Joe Ferraro to Step Down, Brian Choi Named Successor**

Avis Budget's Chief Executive Officer Joe Ferraro is stepping down and will be succeeded by Brian Choi, its chief transformation officer.

**TPG Sets High Fundraising Sights for 2025**

Private-equity firm TPG is setting up for a banner fundraising year in 2025 with a goal of doubling its managed assets over the next several years.

**Shopify Profit Doubles After Revenue Surges During Holidays**

The results reflect that Shopify's platform, which provides the backbone for online storefronts, is playing a critical, if unseen to consumers, role to a wider swath of ecommerce transactions.

**Intel Stock Soars After JD Vance Vows AI Chips Will Be Made in U.S.**

The vice president said excessive regulation or an overemphasis on artificial-intelligence safety could cripple the technology just as it is poised to take off.

**Coca-Cola Stock Rises After Earnings. Here's What Got the Market Excited.**

Fourth-quarter earnings and revenue at the beverage giant top Wall Street expectations.

**Humana Stock Slides Despite Solid Quarter Amid Weak Forecast**

The company also said it expects individual Medicare Advantage membership to drop 10% in 2025.

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250211011877:0/)
