---
title: "Global Forex and Fixed Income Roundup: Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-10 16:26:00"
summary: "The latest Market Talks covering FX and Fixed Income. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.0826 GMT - The Australian dollar rises after data showed China's consumer inflation accelerated in January, boosted by prices of food and services ahead of the Lunar New Year holiday. The data help..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The latest Market Talks covering FX and Fixed Income. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.

0826 GMT - The Australian dollar rises after data showed China's consumer inflation accelerated in January, boosted by prices of food and services ahead of the Lunar New Year holiday. The data help the commodity-linked currency to recover after falling earlier on U.S. President Trump's plans for 25% tariffs on imports of steel and aluminum, Swissquote Bank analyst Ipek Ozkardeskaya says in a note. "The swift recovery in the Australian dollar was certainly due to the encouraging Chinese data that showed that inflation advanced to the highest level in five months." The Australian dollar rises 0.4% to $0.6268, having earlier fallen to a 6-day low of $0.6238, FactSet data show. (jessica.fleetham@wsj.com)

0757 GMT - The dollar rises after President Trump said he would on Monday impose 25% tariffs on all steel and aluminum imports. These measures could be more prolonged than the tariffs recently imposed--then postponed--on Canada and Mexico, Pepperstone strategist Michael Brown says in a note. That means there's an increased risk of higher inflation and weaker economic growth. The dollar benefits from safe-haven demand and the Federal Reserve's cautious stance on interest rate cuts. Furthermore, the U.S. economy should prove more resilient than peers. "That said, anything close to, or above, 110.00 in the DXY dollar index seems a bit far-fetched for now," Brown says. The DXY rises 0.2% to 108.287. (renae.dyer@wsj.com)

0741 GMT - The impact of China's recently added 10% tariffs on auto imports from the U.S. is expected to be limited, Nomura analysts write in a note. China is set to impose an additional 10% tariff on imports of large vehicles and pickup trucks assembled in the U.S., bringing the total import duty to 25%, the analysts add. This move is part of a set of measures announced by Beijing on February 4 in retaliation against Trump's 10% tariffs on all Chinese goods imported to the U.S. However, given the decline in new vehicle imports to China following the pandemic, Nomura believes the impact on global automakers will be minimal. Last year, 50% of China's auto imports came from Europe and the U.K., the analysts note. (jiahui.huang@wsj.com; @ivy\_jiahuihuang)

0734 GMT - The FTSE 100 is expected to open seven points higher, or 0.1%, according to IG. The index closed 26 points lower, or 0.3%, to 8700 points Friday. President Trump on Sunday said he would impose 25% tariffs on all steel and aluminium imports from Monday. Risky assets are becoming desensitized to Trump's tariff announcements, Jefferies economist Mohit Kumar says in a note. "Our view in tariffs remain that they will cause volatility, are a negotiating tool and will eventually be not as bad as feared." Elsewhere, this week's focus is on U.S. inflation data Wednesday, a testimony from Federal Reserve Chair Jerome Powell on Tuesday and Wednesday and U.K. economic growth data on Thursday. (renae.dyer@wsj.com)

0721 GMT - The Japanese yen may extend its uptrend against Singapore dollar, says Quek Ser Leang of UOB's Global Economics & Markets Research in a report. Last week, the JPY/SGD pair's price movements transformed into a strong rally, which broke decisively above the top of the weekly Ichimoku cloud, the markets strategist notes. The weekly moving average convergence divergence has turned positive, signaling further upside potential. The currency pair also broke clearly above the daily declining trendline resistance connecting the September and December 2024 highs, the strategist says. The nearest meaningful resistance level is the high from last December, the strategist adds. According to FactSet, JPY/SGD is 0.5% lower at 0.0089; it touched 0.0091 last December. (ronnie.harui@wsj.com)

0718 GMT - Fresh headlines about U.S. tariffs keep markets on their toes and should keep German Bunds better supported, says Commerzbank Research's Rainer Guntermann. U.S. President Trump said he plans to impose 25% tariffs Monday on imports of steel and aluminum, and also said he plans to make an announcement about reciprocal tariffs on Tuesday or Wednesday. "Markets fear that Trump's 'reciprocal tariffs' could further weigh on the already gloomy growth outlook for the euro area," the rates strategist says in a note. With risk sentiment set to remain shaky, Bunds should remain better supported at the start of the week with 10-year yields below 2.40%, he says. The 10-year Bund yield is trading little changed at 2.374% at market open, according to LSEG. (emese.bartha@wsj.com)

0706 GMT - South Korean shares closed almost flat after paring much of its early losses fueled by worries about President Trump's new tariff plan. The benchmark Kospi ended at 2521.27, down 0.03% or 0.65 point. Foreign and retail investors were net sellers. Steelmakers Posco Holdings and Hyundai Steel slid 0.8% and 2.0%, respectively, with Trump due to announce 25% tariffs on imports of steel and aluminum. Meanwhile, Woori Financial Group rose 6.0% after its 2024 net profit beat market consensus. USD/KRW was 0.2% higher at 1,451.20 in Seoul onshore trading. South Korea's 10-year government bond yield was up 0.1 bp at 2.837%. (kwanwoo.jun@wsj.com)

0704 GMT - Hong Kong is expected to continue benefiting from China's likely significant outbound portfolio investments this year, driven by tariff threats, the yuan's carry disadvantage and Beijing's policy support, according to BNP Paribas analysts. China's outbound portfolio investments hit a record high in 2024, helping Hong Kong's financial markets navigate another year of higher-for-longer USD rates, they write in a note. The Hong Kong Monetary Authority and the People's Bank of China announced six measures to expand cross-border flows in January, which included launching a yuan trade financing liquidity facility. Beijing may also accelerate the allocation of official reserves to Hong Kong, they say. These moves indicate that authorities are further opening up China's borders and will benefit Hong Kong, BNP Paribas says. (jiahui.huang@wsj.com; @ivy\_jiahuihuang)

0648 GMT - Long-end U.S. Treasurys offer value with 10-year yields at 4.50%, notwithstanding the risks of a rise if inflation expectations pick up, Pepperstone's Michael Brown says in a note. Besides a continued readiness to buy gold, the senior research strategist likes long-end Treasurys at current yield levels. That said, he sees the risk of long-term inflation expectations picking up and sparking a sustained round of Treasury selling as significant. The 10-year Treasury yield trades little changed at 4.485%, according to Tradeweb. (emese.bartha@wsj.com)

0611 GMT - U.S. reciprocal tariffs would have a limited impact if imposed specifically on heavily protected South Korean agricultural and food products, Citigroup economist Jin-Wook Kim writes in a note. This is because Korean vegetables, fruits and other food-related exports to the U.S. account for only 0.3% of South Korea's total exports, Kim says. However, the impact could be more significant if the U.S. imposes tariffs broadly on Korean goods, as South Korea exports over 40% of its cars, auto parts, batteries and computers directly to the U.S., he adds. South Korea's weighted average tariffs on U.S. goods were 4.4% in 2021, Citi notes, while the U.S. had a weighted average tariff of 0.0% on Korean goods. (kwanwoo.jun@wsj.com)

0556 GMT - Trump's tariff is likely to be a long-term theme, says Saxo Markets chief investment strategist Charu Chanana in a commentary. Tariffs are being used not just to tax imports but as tools for national security, economic leverage, and revenue generation, indicating a shift towards long-term economic policy rather than short-term trade disputes, the analyst says. "For investors, that means positioning for a world where protectionism is the norm, not the exception," she writes. It is likely to have an impact on U.S. domestic manufacturing and industrial revival, energy and resource independence, defense and cyber security expansion, and inflation, the analyst notes. (tracy.qu@wsj.com)

0545 GMT - China's headline CPI inflation rose to a five-month high last month, but the boost from stimulus is likely to be short-lived, according to Capital Economics. Economist Zichun Huang attributes the increase in January to the lagged effect of stronger demand from the previous quarter, fueled by government efforts to boost consumption and broader fiscal support. However, with the underlying imbalance between supply and demand still unresolved, the research firm expects inflation to drop back again. Persistent structural imbalances in the economy are likely to keep inflation low through 2025 and beyond, Huang says. CE forecasts that consumer price inflation will average around 0% in 2025 and 2026, well below consensus expectations. (fabiana.negrinochoa@wsj.com)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250210001882:0/)
