---
title: "GlobalFoundries Shares Rise on Adj EPS Beat"
date: "2025-02-12 00:33:00"
summary: "By Emon ReiserShares for GlobalFoundries were on the rise after the semiconductor company beat Wall Street estimates on adjusted earnings.The stock was up about 3.7% to $39.14 in morning trading.The chip maker swung to a loss of $729 million, or $1.32 a share, down from a profit of $278 million,..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Emon Reiser

Shares for GlobalFoundries were on the rise after the semiconductor company beat Wall Street estimates on adjusted earnings.

The stock was up about 3.7% to $39.14 in morning trading.

The chip maker swung to a loss of $729 million, or $1.32 a share, down from a profit of $278 million, or 50 cents a share, a year earlier. Its bottom line included a $935 million impairment charge tied to legacy investments in production capacity for its facility in Malta, New York, where it's transferring a range of essential chip technologies.

"These transfers are part of our long-term capacity investments, which include partnering closely with government and securing incentive packages to offer our customers differentiated technologies in geographically strategic regions," the company said on an earnings call with investors.

Stripping out one-time items, adjusted earnings were 46 cents a share. Analysts polled by FactSet expected 45 cents a share.

Fourth-quarter revenue declined to $1.83 billion, meeting analysts' expectations. Revenue for the year-ago quarter was $1.85 billion.

GlobalFoundries guided for first-quarter revenue between $1.55 billion and $1.6 billion. It sees profits between $78 million, or 14 cents a share, and $142 million, or 26 cents a share. Analysts expect sales of $1.66 billion and profit of $140 million.

Last week, GlobalFoundries announced that it appointed Thomas Caulfield as executive chairman and named current chief operating officer Tim Breen as the company's next chief executive officer, effective April 28.

Write to Emon Reiser at emon.reiser@wsj.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250211007449:0/)
