---
title: "NatWest Guides For Higher Income, Profitability After Quarterly Beat"
date: "2025-02-14 15:49:00"
summary: "By Elena VardonNatWest said it expects an acceleration in income growth and profitability this year after it posted fourth-quarter results that beat expectations.The British bank forecasts that its total income excluding notable items will come in between 15.2 billion pounds and 15.7 billion pounds ($19.10 billion-$19.73 billion) for 2025 as..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Elena Vardon

NatWest said it expects an acceleration in income growth and profitability this year after it posted fourth-quarter results that beat expectations.

The British bank forecasts that its total income excluding notable items will come in between 15.2 billion pounds and 15.7 billion pounds ($19.10 billion-$19.73 billion) for 2025 as loan growth and structural hedges that continue to mitigate the impact of interest-rate cuts by the Bank of England. This is up from the 14.70 billion pound result it reported for 2024, which was roughly flat on the previous year.

It also guided for its return on tangible equity--a key measure of profitability--to land between 15% and 16% this year, and expects the metric to be greater than 15% in 2027. This compares with a previous target of a return above 13% for 2026 and a 17.5% result last year.

The lender--which the U.K. government seeks to return to private ownership in the first half of this year--posted a 19% on-year increase in its pretax profit of 1.49 billion pounds for the three months ended Dec. 31, beating estimates of 1.36 billion pounds taken from a company-compiled consensus.

Fourth-quarter total income rose 8% to 3.825 billion pounds, ahead of the 3.71 billion pounds forecast by analysts.

NatWest's common equity Tier 1 ratio--a key measure of balance-sheet strength--stood at 13.6% at Dec. 31, in line with expectations and its mid-term target of between 13% and 14%.

Write to Elena Vardon at elena.vardon@wsj.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250214003446:0-natwest-guides-for-higher-income-profitability-after-quarterly-beat/)
