---
title: "Global Forex and Fixed Income Roundup: Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-12 10:14:00"
summary: "The latest Market Talks covering FX and Fixed Income. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.2114 ET - The rupee's recovery from recent lows has fueled speculation that the Reserve Bank of India intervened to steady the currency, an outcome DBS's Philip Wee says is likely welcome ahead..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The latest Market Talks covering FX and Fixed Income. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.

2114 ET - The rupee's recovery from recent lows has fueled speculation that the Reserve Bank of India intervened to steady the currency, an outcome DBS's Philip Wee says is likely welcome ahead of a Modi-Trump meeting. Pulling INR back from record lows could help defuse currency-related tensions at the Modi-Trump meeting, he says in a note. The rupee rallied Tuesday after reported intervention by the central bank to quell a buildup of speculative INR shorts, the FX strategist says. Still, DBS expects USD/INR to rise to 88.8 by mid-2025 on the dollar's haven status from Trump tariffs and the Fed delaying rate cuts to 2H. It also sees the RBI lowering rates again in 2Q. USD/INR last at 86.69. (fabiana.negrinochoa@wsj.com)

1949 ET - The Philippine central bank is expected to cut its policy rate by 25 bps to 5.50% on Thursday, according to all 13 economists polled by The Wall Street Journal. A weaker 2024 economic growth and moderate inflation outlook, could support the Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas for a rate cut, say Citi analysts in a note. January's headline CPI inflation remained within the BSP's inflation target band of 2%-4%, Goldman Sachs economist Hui Shan writes in a note. The 4Q economic growth came in modestly weaker, mainly due to slower private consumption and investment, the economist says. (amanda.lee@wsj.com)

1929 ET - Japanese stocks are higher as a weaker yen raises hopes for domestic earnings growth. Tech and shipping stocks are leading the gains. SoftBank Corp. is up 5.0% after its nine-month net profit climbed 7.4%. Kawasaki Kisen is up 4.0% and Mitsui O.S.K. Lines is 2.4% higher. USD/JPY is at 152.90, up from 152.49 as of Tuesday 5 p.m. Eastern time. Investors are closely watching domestic earnings as well as U.S. trade policies. Toray Industries and Yamaha Motor are scheduled to announce their quarterly results later in the day. The Nikkei Stock Average is up 0.3% at 38904.46. (kosaku.narioka@wsj.com; @kosakunarioka)

1928 ET - The yen weakens against other G-10 and Asian currencies in early trade amid mild risk-on sentiment. There has been positive news out of Ukraine, with President Zelensky willing to negotiate a land exchange with Russia, says Matt Simpson, market analyst at FOREX.com and City Index, in an email. Also, U.S. Treasury Secretary Bessent is being dispatched to Ukraine to discuss energy and rare-earth deals, which could point to early signs of an end to the Russia-Ukraine war, the analyst adds. USD/JPY rises 0.3% to 152.90; AUD/JPY gains 0.3% to 96.25; EUR/JPY is up 0.2% at 158.36. (ronnie.harui@wsj.com)

1910 ET - JGB futures fall in the early Tokyo session, with the Japanese government bond market likely to track overnight price declines in U.S. Treasurys. Both JGBs and Treasurys tend to move in tandem. For today, focus may be on the Finance Ministry's scheduled auction of 250 billion yen in 10-year inflation-indexed sovereign debt. This auction could result in a satisfactory-to-solid outcome, Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities' fixed income strategists say in a recent research report. "We anticipate a certain amount of demand as a hedge against continued high inflation," the strategists add. 10-year JGB futures are 0.16 yen lower at 139.86 yen. (ronnie.harui@wsj.com)

1849 ET - Japanese stocks may rise as a weaker yen raises hopes for domestic earnings growth. Nikkei futures are up 0.7% at 39060 on the SGX. USD/JPY is at 152.72, compared with 151.85 as of Monday's Tokyo stock market close. Japanese markets were closed Tuesday for a national holiday. Investors are focusing on earnings as well as U.S. trade policies. Toray Industries and Yamaha Motor are set to release their quarterly results later in the day. The Nikkei Stock Average closed flat at 38801.17 on Monday. (kosaku.narioka@wsj.com)

1724 ET - Many economists predicted that once pandemic-era stimulus ran dry, consumer spending would take a hit. But it isn't all that surprising that it didn't play out that way, because predictions of the consumer's demise often miss the mark, New York Fed President John Williams tells reporters. Supporting solid consumer-spending growth last year was a strong labor market, as well as strong asset performance in financial markets that boosted household wealth, Williams says. In 2025, Williams says that consumer-spending growth might slow slightly to conform better with a long-term trend line. (matt.grossman@wsj.com; @mattgrossman)

1724 ET - NY Fed President John Williams says measures of housing inflation are partly responsible for his forecast that overall inflation is likely to finish 2025 around 2.5%, somewhat above the Fed's 2% target. With housing disinflation, "it took longer to get that process going," and therefore it will take a while yet for slower housing price increases to translate into a less inflationary addition to the overall figure. Another stubborn inflation metric, core services inflation excluding housing, is set to continue making gradual progress too, Williams tells a group of reporters. (matt.grossman@wsj.com; @mattgrossman)

1614 ET - New York Fed President John Williams says that two dissents from policy voters at recent Fed meetings simply reflect officials' dedication to steering policy effectively. "This is really about people looking at the data...and coming out in a different place about how to achieve our goals," Williams says in remarks at a Pace University campus in New York City. Dissents are a "healthy sign that we're having a very active debate," he says. Williams suggests that dissents may become more common when the central bank is approaching a policy turning point. (matt.grossman@wsj.com; @mattgrossman)

1608 ET - NY Fed President John Williams reiterates his view that it may take more than a year to get inflation all the way back to the Fed's 2% target. Williams says in a speech at a Pace University campus in New York City that he expects inflation to end this year at roughly 2.5%, near its current level as of December, per the Fed's preferred inflation gauge. He says he expects inflation to gradually fall to the Fed's 2% target over more time. (matt.grossman@wsj.com; @mattgrossman)

1558 ET - Treasury yields rise ahead of inflation data and after Fed Chair Powell reaffirmed the economy is well and interest rates can remain unchanged. In his semiannual testimony in the Senate, Powell said rates can be on hold for longer if inflation remains above the Fed's 2% target. He will address the House tomorrow. Also tomorrow, January CPI is expected to basically keep December's pace. In a Wall Street Journal Survey, economists forecast the 12-month reading at 2.9% and core at 3.1%. Wholesale inflation data are due Thursday. The 10-year yield rises for the fourth consecutive session, by 0.044 percentage point to 4.536%. The two-year gains 0.025 p.p. to 4.290%. (paulo.trevisani@wsj.com; @ptrevisani)

1438 ET - The U.S.'s plan to impose new restrictions on exports of key technologies used in artificial intelligence to foreign countries is counterproductive, says Henna Virkkunen, the European Commission's top tech regulator. "We will use all diplomatic means to request that the U.S. would treat the EU in a non-discriminatory way," she says, adding that lifting the restrictions would benefit both the EU and U.S. and calling the EU "the best customer of the U.S. for tech exports." The U.S. floated its AI chip export restrictions — which could lead to many EU member states having the number they can buy capped — last month in an effort to safeguard against national security risks. (edith.hancock@wsj.com)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250211013332:0/)
