---
title: "Auto & Transport Roundup: Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-12 05:50:00"
summary: "The latest Market Talks covering the Auto and Transport sector. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires at 4:20 ET, 12:20 ET and 16:50 ET.1317 ET - While the North American auto industry scurries to adapt to the threat of US tariffs, auto-parts maker Magna International is deepening relationships with automakers...."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The latest Market Talks covering the Auto and Transport sector. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires at 4:20 ET, 12:20 ET and 16:50 ET.

1317 ET - While the North American auto industry scurries to adapt to the threat of US tariffs, auto-parts maker Magna International is deepening relationships with automakers. Magna and Mercedes-Benz are expanding their partnership, which they say is "strengthened through development and engineering services up to the production of the all-new electric model of Mercedes-Benz's iconic off-roader." Last year, Magna began production of the eDS Duo eDrive system at its Lannach facility in Austria. Magna says the long-term partnership includes the production of more than 500,000 iconic off-roader at Magna's Graz, Austria facility since 1979. (adriano.marchese@wsj.com)

1110 ET - Ford could face layoffs if Trump gets rid of certain legislation that Biden passed to support electric vehicle production. CEO Jim Farley said he is concerned about Trump repealing parts of the Inflation Reduction Act, which incentivized various green-energy efforts including electric vehicle production. Ford has already sunk capital into initiatives that would benefit from the IRA, and expects it would have to cut jobs at plants across the country if large parts of the IRA is repealed. Farley said he is visiting D.C. on Wednesday for the second time in three weeks to try to highlight how much policy uncertainty is weighing on the auto industry. (katherine.hamilton@wsj.com)

1108 ET - Tariffs are bringing "cost and chaos" to Ford in the immediate term, Chief Executive Jim Farley said during a call. Tariffs on vehicles and components Ford ships into the U.S. from Mexico and Canada would be devastating. Meanwhile, competitors in South Korea, Japan and Europe, which bring in millions of vehicles into the U.S., would experience significant windfall from not being subject to tariffs, Farley said. Ford gets about 90% of its steel domestically and isn't worried about aluminium duties, but tariffs could drive up the market price for those goods. (katherine.hamilton@wsj.com)

0543 ET - Rheinmetall told investors in a pre-close call on Monday that it is on track to reach its 2024 guidance of 10 billion euros in sales and an operating margin of 15%, with defense growth expected to rise by 50%, Alpha Value's Saima Hussain says. The German arms maker expects operating free cash flow to surpass forecasts due to pre-payments, she writes in a research note. The company's order backlog will reach 54 billion euros for the end of 2024, instead of an initial estimate of between 60 billion and 70 billion euros, due to a delay in the award of two German digital contracts, which were postponed to this year. That also means Rheinmetall's 2025 backlog is expected to soar to 80 billion euros, she notes. Shares are up 0.4% at 734.2 euros. (cristina.gallardo@wsj.com)

0542 ET - Rheinmetall's confirmation on Monday that it submitted a nonbinding offer for Thyssenkrupp Marine Systems' marine business signals its intent to position itself in the naval defense business, Alpha Value analyst Saima Hussain says. This would create competition for France's Naval Group, partly owned by Thales, she notes. Rheinmetall is still waiting for feedback from TKMS, which seems to prefer a spinoff instead, Hussain adds. Shares in Rheinmetall are up 0.2% at 732.4 euros. (cristina.gallardo@wsj.com)

0453 ET - Kuehne + Nagel will likely tone down its ambitious 2026 targets at its upcoming capital markets day, AlphaValue analyst Kulwinder Rajpal writes. In 2023, the company unveiled plans to grow group EBIT at a compound annual growth rate of 17%-19% between 2019 and 2026, and achieve a conversion rate (EBIT to Gross Profit) of 25%-30% by 2026. Rajpal says consensus never bought into the targets then and doesn't expect the company's fortunes to brighten over the next two years. AlphaValue expects volume growth to remain in the quagmire, and sees marginal headwinds from the abatement of the Red Sea crisis and trade wars. "These factors put the original target well out of sight." Shares rise 0.6% to 205 Swiss francs. (dominic.chopping@wsj.com)

0359 ET - The Indian equities selloff has opened up opportunities, HSBC strategists say. They see the software sector as showing improving growth prospects, adding that it stands to gain from a weak rupee. Lenders can benefit from less restrictive monetary policy, and they also like consumer names that can tap India's rural demand recovery or markets overseas. They favor electronics maker Dixon, which is supported by industry and policy tailwinds. Automaker Maruti Suzuki stands out for its export potential and rural market positioning, while insurance platform PB Fintech can grow at 2X-3X the industry rate thanks to competitive advantages. HSBC also likes Godrej Properties, whose large land bank lets it grow in tough times, and LTIMindtree, which is well-placed for rising IT services demand. HSBC has buy calls on all five. (fabiana.negrinochoa@wsj.com)

0326 ET - BYD's AI-driven smart-driving technology is positive for companies in its supply chain, Citi analysts say in a research note. The analysts see upside of at least 3%-5% to component maker BYD Electronic's auto-business revenue over 2025 and 2026, the analysts say. However, the recent rally for BYD and its related stocks may have already priced in most of the impact, they add. Citi sees Will Semiconductor, Sunny Optical Technology and BYD Electronic as major beneficiaries from the advanced driver assistance system theme, given the big contribution in revenue and profit from the auto business. (tracy.qu@wsj.com)

0259 ET - BYD's new driving-assistance system is notable as it brings advanced autonomous-driving technology to the masses with a price tag of under 100,000 yuan, Bernstein analysts write in a note. One key challenge that had weighed on BYD's stock previously was its laggard status in driving-assistance tech, they note. BYD's launch demonstrates the company's ability to catch up with competitors, they say. BYD has outpaced rivals in investing in R&D, and boasts a considerably bigger research team of more than 110,000 engineers, including more than 5,000 dedicated to its advanced driver-assistance system, Bernstein says. The asset management firm maintains a buy rating on the stock with a target price of HK$350.00. Shares are last at HK$328.80. (jiahui.huang@wsj.com; @ivy\_jiahuihuang)

0258 ET - BYD'S aggressive approach to install its new smart driving system directly challenges Tesla's full self-driving system, which is scheduled for launch in China, DBS says in a research note. On Monday, the Chinese auto maker introduced its advanced driver-assistance system across its vehicle models under its brands Ocean, Dynasty, Denza and Yangwang. BYD's emphasis on affordability and widespread adoption of the smart driving features is "a key differentiator compared to peers," the note says. Given that the mass market accounts for a significant proportion of the auto market, BYD is ahead of its peers in the autonomous driving assistance field, it adds. Shares were last at HK$328.40. (sherry.qin@wsj.com)

0236 ET - BYD's introduction of its driving assistance system--God's Eye--is marginally positive for the company and could help sustain its high market share, Jefferies analysts write in a note. The Chinese automaker plans to roll out the technology for its models in all price ranges, they note. The move will likely accelerate the adoption rate of assisted driving function in the mass market and lead to a wave of upgrades by existing users, they say. Jefferies maintains its buy rating for the stock. Shares last at HK$330.00. (jiahui.huang@wsj.com; @ivy\_jiahuihuang)

0013 ET - BYD's latest AI-powered driving technology for Chinese car buyers mark a new breakthrough for the industry, according to Daiwa analysts Evelyn Zhang and Kelvin Lau in a research note. Peers are likely to follow suit, they write, recommending investors to focus on smart car technology supply-chain players after BYD's latest press conference. BYD is setting an example of cost reduction through engineering and technological innovation, the analysts note, adding that the industry is likely to follow BYD in accelerating innovation in engineering to cut costs. The analysts name Horizon Robotics, Huizhou Desay SV Automotive and Bethel Automotive Safety Systems as their preferred names. (tracy.qu@wsj.com)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250211011776:0/)
