---
title: "Super Micro Computer Slashes Outlook, Sets Lofty 2026 Target"
date: "2025-02-12 05:45:00"
summary: "By Dean SealSuper Micro Computer slashed its full-year revenue outlook, but also set a sales target for fiscal 2026 that blows past current Wall Street forecasts.The maker of server and computer products said after the bell on Tuesday that it now expects $23.5 billion to $25 billion in revenue for..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Dean Seal

Super Micro Computer slashed its full-year revenue outlook, but also set a sales target for fiscal 2026 that blows past current Wall Street forecasts.

The maker of server and computer products said after the bell on Tuesday that it now expects $23.5 billion to $25 billion in revenue for fiscal 2025, which ends June 30. That's down from prior guidance for $26 billion to $30 billion.

Chief Executive Charles Liang meanwhile said the company's direct-liquid cooling technology is going to see heavy adoption in data centers over the next 12 months, paving the way for Super Micro to hit $40 billion in revenue in fiscal 2026. Analysts polled by FactSet have been projecting $29.18 billion in revenue that year.

Shares initially plummeted after the guidance was released, extending a selloff earlier in the day, before climbing back above its Tuesday closing price.

The guidance came alongside preliminary results for Super Micro's fiscal second quarter, which spanned the last three months of 2024. Super Micro provided preliminary numbers because it has no auditor, following Ernst & Young's splashy exit as its audit firm last year.

The San Jose, Calif., company, which makes servers used for generative artificial intelligence, said second-quarter sales are expected to be $5.6 billion to $5.7 billion, missing analyst estimates for $5.77 billion, according to FactSet.

Quarterly earnings are expected to be 50 cents to 52 cents a share, below the 55 cents expected by analysts. Adjusted earnings, which strip out one-time items, are expected to be 58 cents to 60 cents a share. Analysts surveyed by FactSet had projected 61 cents a share.

Super Micro said it is working diligently to have its quarterly results finalized, along with an annual report for fiscal 2024 and a quarterly report for its fiscal first quarter, by Feb. 25. None of its previously issued financial statements require a restatement, the company said.

Ernst & Young said in October it could no longer rely on Super Micro management's representations and didn't want to be associated with financial statements prepared by its leadership.

The Big 4 accounting firm walked away from the company about a month after The Wall Street Journal reported that the Justice Department is probing the company. The investigation is apparently connected to a former employee who has accused Super Micro of accounting violations and filed a whistleblower lawsuit.

In August, short-selling firm Hindenburg Research said it had found accounting red flags at Super Micro.

Write to Dean Seal at dean.seal@wsj.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250211011695:0/)
