---
title: "Canopy Growth's drop in adult-use pot sales snuffs out cannabis-stock momentum"
date: "2025-02-08 05:18:00"
summary: "By Steve GelsiCanadian cannabis company posts another quarterly loss as adult-use sales slump, despite some bright spotsCanopy Growth Corp.'s stock fell sharply as the Canadian cannabis company's wider-than-expected third-quarter loss chilled a recent rally in its share price.Canopy Growth's stock fell 18% to $2.29 a share in early action Friday..."
categories:
  - "MarketWatch"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "MarketWatch"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Steve Gelsi

Canadian cannabis company posts another quarterly loss as adult-use sales slump, despite some bright spots

Canopy Growth Corp.'s stock fell sharply as the Canadian cannabis company's wider-than-expected third-quarter loss chilled a recent rally in its share price.

Canopy Growth's stock fell 18% to $2.29 a share in early action Friday but held on to a nearly 14% rise for the past week.

Bernstein analyst Nadine Sarwat said Canopy Growth (CGC) fell short of her outlook in its largest business, recreational cannabis, but added that the quarter offered some bright spots.

"Canopy beat consensus expectations on the topline on a strong medical and international cannabis business, but there was no clear flow-through of this beat [on its balance sheet], which will likely frustrate investors," Sarwat said.

Canopy Growth said its third-quarter loss narrowed to C$121.9 million ($85 million), or C$1.11 a share, from a loss of C$216.8 million, or C$2.62 a share, in the year-ago period.

Analysts had expected Canopy Growth to post a narrower loss of 52 cents Canadian a share.

Revenue fell 5% to C$74.76 million, ahead of the FactSet consensus estimate of C$69.1 million.

Adult-use sales fell 10% to C$21.2 million, while medical-cannabis sales jumped 16% to C$19.6 million.

Third-quarter gross margin fell by 4% from the year-ago level, to 32%. Canopy Growth cited incremental costs related to the launch of its Claybourne infused prerolls, as well as higher indirect costs at its Storz & Bickel vaporizer unit.

Canopy Growth also reduced its third-quarter debt to C$442 million from the previous quarter's debt of $C554 million by making an early payment on its senior secured term loan.

Fresh speculation about U.S. federal cannabis reforms, as well as a rally in Canadian pot company Aurora Cannabis Inc. (ACB) (CA:ACB), fed gains in cannabis stocks earlier this week

Also read: Cannabis stocks extend gains on RFK Jr. committee vote, Senate banking comments

-Steve Gelsi

This content was created by MarketWatch, which is operated by Dow Jones & Co. MarketWatch is published independently from Dow Jones Newswires and The Wall Street Journal.

[MarketWatch](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_SN20250207009014:0/)
