---
title: "Energy & Utilities Roundup: Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-14 01:20:00"
summary: "The latest Market Talks covering Energy and Utilities. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires at 4:20 ET, 12:20 ET and 16:50 ET.1054 ET - Fortis's premium valuation is justified by the utility's strong position and incremental capex opportunities, but there looks to be little room for multiple expansionfrom here, Jefferies..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The latest Market Talks covering Energy and Utilities. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires at 4:20 ET, 12:20 ET and 16:50 ET.

1054 ET - Fortis's premium valuation is justified by the utility's strong position and incremental capex opportunities, but there looks to be little room for multiple expansionfrom here, Jefferies reckons. It initiates coverage with a hold call and C$67 target price. Jefferies' analysts forecast about 5% compound annual EPS growth for Fortis through 2029, assuming flat foreign exchange rates. Still, they also see limited balance sheet flexibility, which could be exacerbated by forex swings and/or tax reform. Fortis now up 0.7% at C$63.12. (robb.stewart@wsj.com; @RobbMStewart)

1017 ET - Keyera logged a strong 4Q, with the performance of its liquids infrastructure segment likely to have been the biggest positive surprise for investors, Raymond James' Michael Barth says. Adjusted Ebitda came in at C$313 million, 11% ahead of the analyst's forecast and 8% above the consensus projection. Barth expects the market to react positively, despite distributable cash flow being in line with expectations and no significant incremental news on growth. Raymond James has an outperform call on the shares, which are now up 2.7% at C$42.96.(robb.stewart@wsj.com)

0824 ET - Oil futures add to the previous session's losses on the possibility of Russia-Ukraine peace talks promoted by President Trump and expectations Trump will outline plans today for reciprocal trade tariffs on countries that impose duties on U.S. goods. Spartan Capital's Peter Cardillo sees "demand factors stemming from these tariffs" contributing to weaker crude, "however, we believe the very low end of the $70 level will likely hold." WTI is off 1.1% at $70.59 a barrel. Brent crude is 1.1% lower at $74.33 a barrel. (anthony.harrup@wsj.com)

0251 ET - Oiltek International's 2025-2026 earnings are supported by its order book, CGS International's William Tng says in a research report, as the brokerage maintains its add rating for the stock. Management said that it's optimistic on the outlook for the next two years, as the company's order book of MYR354.9 million as of Feb. 12 is expected to be completed over the next 18-24 months, the analyst notes. Management also continues to see order-win opportunities in its edible and non-edible oil refinery segment, given population growth and growing food demand, Tng notes. However, the brokerage trims the target price to S$1.43 from S$1.44, based on estimated peer-sector average 2026 price-to-earnings of 18.3x versus the previous forecast of 18.4x. Shares are 2.6% higher at S$1.18. (ronnie.harui@wsj.com)

1853 ET - Origin Energy's shares gain 1.6% after its 1H result beat consensus expectations, shrugging off lower earnings from minority-owned business Octopus. Citi says Origin's A$1.02 billion net profit was 4% ahead of market hopes, while an interim dividend of A$0.30/share was also stronger. "We had a negative outlook into today's result after the cash tax and APLNG guidance came in soft at the quarter," says analyst James Byrne, referring to the Australia Pacific LNG facility. Citi removes its negative outlook, while retaining a buy call on the stock. It says Origin's pared earnings guidance for Octopus reflects heavier investment in technology rather than poor risk management, which had been a concern for some investors. (david.winning@wsj.com; @dwinningWSJ)

1832 ET - The expansion of AGL Energy's battery portfolio has grabbed the attention of UBS, which thinks it bodes well for rival Origin Energy. Analyst Tom Allen expects batteries to drive consensus upgrades to EPS forecasts from FY 2026. This provides "a strong read-through for Origin Energy, which we believe has the strongest battery portfolio in development across the market," UBS says. Still, the battery rollout means it must invest more. AGL expects to take a final investment decision on 1.4 gigawatts of new battery capacity over the next 18 months. "Despite forecasting materially higher EPS than consensus from FY 2027 we remain neutral rated as we see the potential for higher shareholder returns moderated by the scale of AGL's long-term reinvestment challenge," UBS says. (david.winning@wsj.com; @dwinningWSJ)

1505 ET - Oil futures backed off from a three-session rally as U.S. crude inventories posted another large weekly build, President Trump and Russia's Vladimir Putin agree to start negotiations toward ending the Russia-Ukraine war, and a pickup in U.S. inflation fueled expectations of the Fed staying on hold for quite some time. The EIA reported a 4.1 million barrel increase in crude stockpiles, along with a first drawdown in gasoline stocks in three months. OPEC, meanwhile, kept its 2025 oil demand growth forecast at 1.45 million barrels a day. WTI settles down 2.7% at $71.37 a barrel and Brent falls 2.4% to $75.19 a barrel. (anthony.harrup@wsj.com)

1415 ET - Oil futures extend losses after President Trump says he had a long phone conversation with Russian President Putin and expressed optimism about bringing the Russia-Ukraine war to an end as the two "agreed to start negotiations immediately." Trump also spoke with Ukrainian President Zelensky. Trump made no mention of U.S. sanctions on Russian oil, although the EIA said this week it doesn't expect the sanctions to significantly affect its 2025 global production forecasts. WTI is off 2.6% at $71.40 a barrel and Brent is down 2.3% at $75.21. (anthony.harrup@wsj.com)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250213012679:0/)
