---
title: "Global Energy Roundup: Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-13 04:28:00"
summary: "The latest Market Talks covering Energy markets. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.1528 ET - Rising power prices and increasing outages are electrifying demand for Generac's home standby and portable generators. Generac CEO Aaron Jagdfeld said 2024 had the most power outages since 2010 largely due to..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The latest Market Talks covering Energy markets. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.

1528 ET - Rising power prices and increasing outages are electrifying demand for Generac's home standby and portable generators. Generac CEO Aaron Jagdfeld said 2024 had the most power outages since 2010 largely due to natural disasters. At the same time, demand to power artificial intelligence is surging and the transition to lower carbon sources is making power supplies less reliable. All this is likely to drive up electricity prices significantly. "We believe homeowners and businesses will begin to invest more aggressively in solutions to help them reduce their electric bills and improve resiliency," said Jagdfeld. The stock rose 9%, to $154.31, Wednesday. (katherine.hamilton@wsj.com)

1505 ET - Oil futures backed off from a three-session rally as U.S. crude inventories posted another large weekly build, President Trump and Russia's Vladimir Putin agree to start negotiations toward ending the Russia-Ukraine war, and a pickup in U.S. inflation fueled expectations of the Fed staying on hold for quite some time. The EIA reported a 4.1 million barrel increase in crude stockpiles, along with a first drawdown in gasoline stocks in three months. OPEC, meanwhile, kept its 2025 oil demand growth forecast at 1.45 million barrels a day. WTI settles down 2.7% at $71.37 a barrel and Brent falls 2.4% to $75.19 a barrel. (anthony.harrup@wsj.com)

1500 ET - Deutsche Bank's U.S. economists maintain their call that the Fed will not choose to cut rates in 2025 after the hot January CPI data. In their base case, the DB team now thinks that the March Fed dot plot will show less inclination to cut rates this year, and that the June dot plot will erase the penciled-in cuts from the current 4.25% to 4.5% target. Rate hikes aren't out of the question but "the bar is likely to be high," the DB team writes. Hikes would likely require that, first, "downside risks to the labor market need to be extinguished," and, second, "core PCE inflation would need to accelerate towards or above 3% in year-over-year terms." Core PCE was up by 2.8% in the 12 months through December. (matt.grossman@wsj.com, @mattgrossman)

1451 ET - Natural gas futures advance for a third straight session as the current cold shot across the U.S. is expected to extend into next week and strong LNG exports help offset gains in production. Thursday's weekly storage report is expected to show a 96 Bcf withdrawal, according to a Wall Street Journal survey of analysts, which would reduce the deficit over the five-year average to 63 Bcf from 111 Bcf the week before. The following two reports are likely to again widen the deficit. The Nymex front month settles up 1.3%, at $3.565/mmBtu. (anthony.harrup@wsj.com)

1441 ET - Colonel's Island Terminal in Brunswick, Georgia, was the busiest U.S. port for cars and heavy equipment last year, Georgia Ports Authority says. The facility handled over 901,000 units of autos and heavy equipment in 2024, in the wake of a series of improvements which included new warehousing and processing space. Brunswick was also the top port for roll-on/roll-off exports in 2024, moving 600,000 tons, the Authority says. Overall, the facility handled over 2 million tons of roll-on-roll-off cargo last year, according to the Authority. (stephen.nakrosis@wsj.com)

1417 ET - The uptick on core inflation last month "is less alarming than it first appears," and a Fed cut this summer remains possible, Pantheon's Sam Tombs writes. He says seasonal factors make it more complicated to extrapolate one month's data. He says the February data will give a better sense of how the underlying trend is evolving. Tombs expects the PCE gauge, to be released later this month, to edge down to 2.7% in January, from 2.8% in December. "If as we expect, the trend continues to slow over the coming months, we still think the FOMC will ease policy again in June." (paulo.trevisani@wsj.com)

1415 ET - Oil futures extend losses after President Trump says he had a long phone conversation with Russian President Putin and expressed optimism about bringing the Russia-Ukraine war to an end as the two "agreed to start negotiations immediately." Trump also spoke with Ukrainian President Zelensky. Trump made no mention of U.S. sanctions on Russian oil, although the EIA said this week it doesn't expect the sanctions to significantly affect its 2025 global production forecasts. WTI is off 2.6% at $71.40 a barrel and Brent is down 2.3% at $75.21. (anthony.harrup@wsj.com)

1138 ET - Oil prices fall in evening trade after U.S. crude oil inventories rose for a third straight week and CPI figures showed inflation heated up last month. Brent crude is down 1.3% to $75.98 a barrel, while WTI falls 1.5% to $72.24 a barrel. Oil stocks rose by 4.1 million barrels last week, well above expectations of a 2.4-million-barrel increase, signaling weaker demand in the world's top crude consumer. Also, the latest U.S. data showed inflation picked up speed in January, extending a recent pattern of price increases that upholds the Fed's more cautious stance on interest-rate cuts. Higher rates typically boost the U.S. dollar and make commodities like oil more expensive for holders of other currencies. Meanwhile, concerns over escalating trade tensions continue to cast a shadow on global growth and the oil-demand outlook, putting pressure on prices. (giulia.petroni@wsj.com)

0918 ET - U.S. natural gas futures are steady to higher with frigid temperatures for much of the U.S. expected to continue next week, keeping heating demand at high levels. "The market is now forced to price in a storage deficit that could persist through the shoulder period given this unexpected cold spell that will be moving through the nation's mid-section through the rest of this week and much of next week," Ritterbusch says in a note. A below-average storage withdrawal expected for last week is likely to be followed by a string of above-average inventory draws, "rendering tomorrow's EIA storage report almost meaningless," the firm adds. The Nymex front month is up 1% at $3.553/mmBtu. (anthony.harrup@wsj.com)

0855 ET - Oil futures are down after an industry group reports a large build in U.S. crude inventories, while OPEC holds its 2025 oil demand growth estimate at 1.45 million barrels a day. The API said crude stocks increased by 9 million barrels last week, analysts note, which follows an 8.7 million barrel build reported for the previous week by the EIA. The EIA's data for last week are due at 10:30 ET. "Crude stock builds are expected in the U.S., but the recent rate of building is more than expected," TP ICAP's Scott Shelton says in a note. "I think that we may see a slowing in the builds in February for the U.S. as exports will be stronger," he adds. WTI is down 1.2% at $72.43 a barrel, and Brent is off 1% at $76.23. (anthony.harrup@wsj.com)

0813 ET - Vertiv slumps despite a strong 4Q report as investors punish management's conservative approach to guidance. The maker of cooling and power equipment for data centers maintained guidance it provided in November for adjusted earnings of $3.50 to $3.60 a share in 2025, and raised its sales outlook by $75 million at the midpoint to a range of about $9.1 billion to $9.3 billion. Investors seem to have wanted more. Shares are down 7% at $114.14 premarket. Management tends to be conservative with initial outlooks, JPMorgan analyst Stephen Tusa said in a research note on Tuesday, adding that he expected the company to reaffirm its initial outlook. (dean.seal@wsj.com)

0749 ET - Legrand is expected to post higher full-year sales on Thursday, according to a company-compiled consensus estimate. The French electrical and digital building-infrastructure manufacturer is expected to post sales of 8.54 billion euros for 2024, compared to 8.42 billion euros the prior year. Operating profit is forecast at 1.60 million euros, according to consensus estimates provided by Visible Alpha. This would be above 2023's 1.59 billion euros. Shares trade 0.1% higher at 98.02 euros. (nina.kienle@wsj.com)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250212011737:0/)
