---
title: "McEwen Mining Files 8K - Unregistered Equity Sales >MUX"
date: "2025-02-12 06:25:00"
summary: "McEwen Mining Inc. (MUX) filed a Form 8K - Unregistered Sales of Equity - with the U.S Securities and Exchange Commission on February 11, 2025.The information set forth in Item 1.01 and Item 8.01 of this Current Report on Form 8-K is incorporated herein by reference. The Company offered and..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

McEwen Mining Inc. (MUX) filed a Form 8K - Unregistered Sales of Equity - with the U.S Securities and Exchange Commission on February 11, 2025.

The information set forth in Item 1.01 and Item 8.01 of this Current Report on Form 8-K is incorporated herein by reference. The Company offered and sold the Notes to the Initial Purchasers in reliance on the exemption from the registration requirements provided by Section 4(a)(2) of the Securities Act for resale to persons reasonably believed to be qualified institutional buyers as defined in, and in reliance on, Rule 144A of the Securities Act. The Company relied on these exemptions from registration based in part on representations made by the Initial Purchasers in the Purchase Agreement (as defined below) pursuant to which the Company sold the Notes to the Initial Purchasers. The Notes and the underlying shares of the Common Stock issuable upon conversion of the Notes, if any, have not been and will not be registered under the Securities Act, and may not be offered or sold in the United States absent registration or an applicable exemption from registration requirements.

To the extent that any shares of the Common Stock are issued upon conversion of the Notes, they will be issued in transactions anticipated to be exempt from registration under the Securities Act by virtue of Section 3(a)(9) thereof, because no commission or other remuneration is expected to be paid in connection with conversion of the Notes and any resulting issuance of shares of the Common Stock. The maximum number of shares of the Company's Common Stock issuable upon conversion of the Notes, including pursuant to any increase in the conversion rate for any Notes converted in connection with a make-whole fundamental change or a notice of redemption, is 12,716,759, based on the initial maximum conversion rate of 88.9284 shares of Common Stock per $1,000 principal amount of Notes, subject to the effect of customary antidilution provisions in the Indenture.

The full text of this SEC filing can be retrieved at: https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/314203/000114036125003863/ef20043276\_8k.htm

Any exhibits and associated documents for this SEC filing can be retrieved at: https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/314203/000114036125003863/0001140361-25-003863-index.htm

Public companies must file a Form 8-K, or current report, with the SEC generally within four days of any event that could materially affect a company's financial position or the value of its shares.

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250211012298:0/)
