---
title: "Market Talk Roundup: Latest on U.S. Politics"
date: "2025-02-11 17:18:00"
summary: "The latest Market Talks covering U.S. politics. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.0418 ET - Gold futures rise after setting a fresh record earlier in the session. Futures are up 0.1% at $2,937.10 a troy ounce, having risen as high as $2,069 in Asian overnight trading. Gold..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The latest Market Talks covering U.S. politics. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.

0418 ET - Gold futures rise after setting a fresh record earlier in the session. Futures are up 0.1% at $2,937.10 a troy ounce, having risen as high as $2,069 in Asian overnight trading. Gold and the U.S. dollar both extended gains, fuelled by fresh tariff threats from President Trump, Swissquote Bank's Ipek Ozkardeskaya says in a note. Trump said on the weekend that he will implement 25% tariffs on steel and aluminum, driving up safe-haven demand for assets like gold. China, Turkey, India and Eastern European nations among others are continuing to buy gold to build their reserves of assets that don't carry Trump or U.S. risks, Ozkardeskaya says. While the tight trade and geopolitical environment could get tenser and uglier very quickly, gold remains the ultimate Trump hedge, and makes $3,000 an ounce easily achievable, she adds. (joseph.hoppe@wsj.com)

0408 ET - Oil prices extend gains from the previous trading session despite fears that President Trump's trade tariffs might hurt global growth. Brent crude and WTI are both up 1% to $76.67 and $73.07 a barrel, respectively, boosted by signs of tighter supplies and rising geopolitical tensions. According to a Bloomberg report, Russian oil production slipped further below the country's OPEC+ quota in January, easing concerns over an oversupplied market even if the Kremlin still has to make up for past overproduction. Meanwhile, Russia and Ukraine continue to exchange attacks targeting energy infrastructure. Traders now await Fed Chair Jerome Powell's testimony before Congress for cues on future rate policy, as higher rates could slow oil-demand growth. (giulia.petroni@wsj.com)

0408 ET - The euro could weaken further as U.S.-eurozone interest rate differentials move against the single currency ahead of potential U.S. trade tariffs, ING's Chris Turner says in a note. President Trump's announcement Monday of a 25% tariff on all steel and aluminum imports hit the EU, he says. Europe is now bracing for tariffs on other sectors, like autos, although politicians are likely concerned about broader tariffs. "Whatever today's news on tariffs, wide rate spreads justify the euro continuing to trade near $1.03 and undermine the need for any corrective bounce." The euro rises 0.1% to $1.0315 but could fall towards the $1.0250-60 range or lower if Trump delivers new tariffs, he says. (renae.dyer@wsj.com)

0140 ET - It does seem as if participants have become rather fatigued when it comes to the whole tariff issue, Pepperstone's Michael Brown says in a note. This was the case Monday, following a fresh round of trade measures by U.S. President Trump on steel and aluminum as well as the issue of reciprocal tariffs, the senior research strategist says. The U.S. administration's focus is now apparently on trade itself, as opposed to "simply chucking tariffs around" as a negotiating strategy aimed at furthering the President's political aims, Brown says. That said, tariffs still seem to be front of mind for market participants, he says. (emese.bartha@wsj.com)

2309 ET - President Trump's trade, fiscal and immigration policy agenda is expected to be mildly inflationary, BofA analysts write, forecasting the changes to be reflected in inflation by 2H 2025. Any additional tariffs in the next few weeks could advance the timeline, they note. "A key question is whether policy changes impact long-run inflation expectations," they say, adding that market-based measures remain within the historical range. BofA reiterates its stance that the Fed's cutting cycle is over, with inflation "stuck above target," forecasting both headline and core CPI to have increased by 0.3% on month in January. "If our January CPI forecast is correct, the case for the Fed to stay on hold will strengthen further," they write. U.S. CPI data is due Wednesday. (jihye.lee@wsj.com)

2150 ET - Emerging Asian economies, such as India, Thailand and China face risk of higher reciprocal tariffs by the U.S., Nomura analysts say in a research note. These countries have higher effective tariff rates on the U.S. than those having free trade agreements with the U.S., such as Singapore and South Korea, they say. Nomura expects Asian economies to step up negotiations with Trump. Both India and Thailand are considering increasing imports or reducing tariffs on certain U.S. goods, they note. Whether Trump imposes higher reciprocal tariffs on a sectoral basis or across the board is important, they say. Should Trump take a sectoral approach, then even countries with lower weighted average tariff rates could be subject to higher tariffs in specific sectors, they add. (sherry.qin@wsj.com)

1649 ET - A 25% U.S. tariff on Canadian aluminum "will be so destructive for industrial aluminum value chain in the U.S. that it cannot last," says Jean Simard, CEO of the Aluminium Association of Canada. Simard tells WSJ he's hoping the Trump administration will carve out Canadian-made aluminum from the president's decision to impose a 25% tariff on imported steel and aluminum. Simard says small- and mid-sized U.S. manufacturers will be stuck paying vastly more for the metal which is used to build cars, aerospace products, and consumer appliances. "At some point in time, some products will be priced out of the market and replaced by foreign imports," Simard predicts. Canada supplies about 60% of the aluminum the U.S. imports. (paul.vieira@wsj.com; @paulvieira)

1456 ET - Tariffs could impact consumer prices faster than they did in the past, WisdomTree's Sam Rines says. "If you had asked me 10 years ago how quickly the pass-through would happen, I would have said...18 to 24 months." But after passing on to consumers increased costs caused by tariffs from Trump's first term, the war in Ukraine and other recent shocks, companies should now be able to adjust prices in three to nine months, Rines says. They "have an excuse to raise prices, they've done it before...they'll do it again and they'll likely be successful simply because the consumer knows there's not really another option." (paulo.trevisani@wsj.com; @ptrevisani)

1425 ET - Shopify may come out unscathed from a tariff situation, says RWM Commerce Consulting CEO Rick Watson. "I am not sure it significantly changes the game for Shopify or its merchants. They have not been overly advantaged or disadvantaged," he says. The company has come out in support of free trade, since 15% of its business is cross-border, they benefit more from fewer walls in place. "It's a similar statement to what you might have seen someone like eBay say in years past," he says. Watson notes that chaos in general is not good for any business, so it could create some corporate indecision in the short-term, but this should settle down at some point." (adriano.marchese@wsj.com)

1419 ET - Threats by President Trump to apply or raise tariffs on trading partners around the globe have traders jumping into gold futures — with the front-month contract closing up 1.6% to $2,914.30 a troy ounce. It's a new record for front-month gold, cracking the $2,900 barrier for the first time. Trump's latest threats, a 25% tariff on steel and aluminum sent to the U.S., looks to have an outsized impact on Canada and Mexico, with Canada selling the U.S. roughly 60% of the aluminum it imports. But markets remain unclear on if this is happening at all. "Recent events have taught us all not to take anything for granted and it's still possible that carve-outs or exemptions will be agreed," says Capital Economics in a note.SPDR Gold rises 1.6%. (kirk.maltais@wsj.com)

1253 ET - The U.S. manufacturing and auto industries are preparing for new 25% tariffs on aluminum and steel imports announced by President Trump. The move will likely have a particularly large effect on imports from Canada and Mexico, says ING Economics in a note. The firm says U.S. manufacturers import over half of the aluminum they need, with Canada the source of roughly 60%. Canada and Mexico account for about 90% of aluminum scrap imports, according to ING. Meanwhile, 23% of steel imports come from Canada, 16% from Brazil, 12% from Mexico and 10% from South Korea. (kirk.maltais@wsj.com)

1237 ET - Treasury Secretary Scott Bessent spoke with Canadian Finance Minister Dominic LeBlanc, according to a summary of the call from the Treasury Department. The readout indicates Bessent stressed the importance of the U.S. and Canada "to combat security threats and engage on economic issues." The reference to security threats likely refers to border security, and stemming the flow of migrants and illegal drugs, like fentanyl, into the U.S. Trump has threatened a 25% tariff on all nonenergy imports from Canada unless Ottawa takes steps to fortify border security and deterring fentanyl trafficking. Spokesmen for LeBlanc did not immediately respond about the phone call with Bessent. (paul.vieira@wsj.com; @paulvieira)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250211001947:0/)
