---
title: "Sony Raises Earnings Guidance on Strength in Game, Music Businesses — 2nd Update"
date: "2025-02-13 19:15:00"
summary: "By Kosaku NariokaSony Group raised its annual earnings projections after reporting higher third-quarter net profit thanks to the strength of its game and music divisions, a sign that its focus on entertainment businesses is paying off.The Japanese electronics and entertainment company said Thursday that net profit for the three months..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Kosaku Narioka

Sony Group raised its annual earnings projections after reporting higher third-quarter net profit thanks to the strength of its game and music divisions, a sign that its focus on entertainment businesses is paying off.

The Japanese electronics and entertainment company said Thursday that net profit for the three months ended December rose, exceeding analysts' expectations, as revenue grew.

Despite sound quarterly results, incoming Chief Executive Hiroki Totoki said Sony is trailing behind top global players in many aspects, such as size and earnings. He said there is room for improvement to become a truly global organization, adding that a relatively large number of Japanese are working in the headquarters in Tokyo.

"We need to compete globally," he said at an earnings briefing.

Sony Group in late January named Totoki, who has led the company's entertainment content growth, as its new chief executive, effective April 1. Totoki has served as chief operating officer since April 2023 and chief financial officer since 2018. Sony also named Lin Tao, who currently serves as senior vice president for finance at videogame unit Sony Interactive Entertainment, as the group's new CFO.

In its third quarter, which included the holiday-shopping season, operating profit from its game business rose 37% to 118.06 billion yen, equivalent to $764.5 million, thanks to higher sales of network services and third-party software titles. PlayStation 5 sales rose to 9.5 million units from 8.2 million units a year earlier.

Operating profit from its music business climbed 28% to Y97.42 billion owing to higher streaming-services revenue. Operating profit from other segments declined.

Sony's strong videogame earnings contrast with rival Nintendo's lackluster results. Last week, Nintendo cut its annual projections for earnings and Switch console sales after posting weak nine-month results. Nintendo in January said the successor to its nearly eight-year-old console would go on sale this year, but it didn't reveal the price, the launch date nor specifications. The company has said it plans to share more details in April.

Before the third-quarter results on Thursday, Sony Group shares closed 1.1% higher at Y3,410, near their all-time high set last week. The stock has been ascending in recent months, driven by growing hopes for the company's success in focusing on its games and other entertainment businesses.

Entertainment businesses, such as games, music and movies, accounted for nearly 60% of Sony's overall revenue in its latest fiscal year, up from about 30% a decade earlier.

Sony Group has spent billions of dollars in acquisitions in recent years to boost its entertainment content. The company bought U.S. videogame maker Bungie in 2022 and animation-focused U.S. streaming service Crunchyroll in 2021.

In January, Sony Group acquired an additional stake in Japanese publishing house Kadokawa for more than $300 million. It now holds a 10% stake in Kadokawa, which publishes books and magazines and produces videogames, movies and animation.

Sony Group and Kadokawa have said they will explore initiatives such as making live-action films and television dramas using Kadokawa's intellectual property, jointly producing anime works and expanding the publishing of Kadokawa's games.

Sony plans to spin off its insurance and online-banking unit and list the business in October to focus on its core entertainment businesses.

The company's third-quarter net profit increased 2.7% from a year earlier to 373.74 billion yen, equivalent to $2.42 billion. That beat the estimate of Y290.5 billion in a poll of analysts by data provider Visible Alpha. Third-quarter revenue grew 18% to Y4.410 trillion.

For the year ending March, it projects net profit to climb 11% to Y1.080 trillion and revenue to increase 1.4% to Y13.200 trillion. It previously projected Y980.00 billion in net profit and Y12.710 trillion in revenue.

Sony raised its full-year operating profit forecast for its game business to Y380.0 billion from Y355.0 billion projected earlier. It also increased its annual operating profit view for its music business, expecting Y340.0 billion instead of Y330.0 billion forecast previously.

Write to Kosaku Narioka at kosaku.narioka@wsj.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250213006005:0-sony-raises-earnings-guidance-on-strength-in-game-music-businesses-2nd-update/)
