---
title: "At Least 1 Person Dead in Private-Jet Collision at Arizona Airport — WSJ"
date: "2025-02-11 08:35:00"
summary: "By Joseph PisaniOne person is dead and others were injured after a small plane collided with a parked jet after landing at an airport in Scottsdale, Ariz., authorities said.Three other people were taken to hospitals, and emergency crews were working to remove one other person from a jet, Scottsdale Fire..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Joseph Pisani

One person is dead and others were injured after a small plane collided with a parked jet after landing at an airport in Scottsdale, Ariz., authorities said.

Three other people were taken to hospitals, and emergency crews were working to remove one other person from a jet, Scottsdale Fire Capt. Dave Folio said at a news conference Monday afternoon. "This is still an active scene," Folio said. Scottsdale Airport has one runway and mainly houses private and corporate jets.

The incident is the latest U.S. aviation accident in recent weeks. Last month, 67 people were killed in a midair collision between an American Airlines passenger jet and an Army Black Hawk helicopter in Washington, D.C. Two days later, seven people died when a medical transport jet crashed in a fiery explosion near a mall in northeast Philadelphia. Last week, 10 people died when a small plane crashed into ocean ice near Alaska.

The Federal Aviation Administration said the incident in Scottsdale occurred around 2:45 p.m. local time when a Learjet 35A landed at the airport, veered off the runway and crashed into a Gulfstream 200 business jet. The airport is temporarily closed, the FAA said.

According to the Scottsdale airport, it had more than 166,000 takeoffs and landings in 2024.

There were 47 plane accidents in the U.S. in January, including five with fatalities, according to data from the National Transportation Safety Board. In 2024, there were 179 fatal accidents, down from 197 in 2023. There were about 1,200 accidents overall last year, flat from 2023.

Write to Joseph Pisani at joseph.pisani@wsj.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250210012340:0/)
