---
title: "Tempus to Report Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2024 Financial Results on February 24"
date: "2025-02-11 21:34:00"
summary: "Tempus to Report Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2024 Financial Results on February 24CHICAGO--(BUSINESS WIRE)--February 11, 2025--Tempus AI, Inc. , a leader in artificial intelligence and precision medicine, today announced they will report financial results for the fourth quarter and full year 2024 on Monday, February 24, 2025. The company..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Tempus to Report Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2024 Financial Results on February 24

CHICAGO--(BUSINESS WIRE)--February 11, 2025--

Tempus AI, Inc. , a leader in artificial intelligence and precision medicine, today announced they will report financial results for the fourth quarter and full year 2024 on Monday, February 24, 2025. The company will hold the earnings conference call at 4:30 p.m. ET. The company's quarterly earnings will be released the same day.

The call will feature Tempus Founder and CEO, Eric Lefkofsky, and Chief Financial Officer, Jim Rogers. The live audio webcast will be accessible through the events page of Tempus' Investor Relations website. Alternatively, the call can be accessed via the following:

Conference ID: 9601821

Domestic Dial-in Number: (888) 596-4144

International Dial-in Number: (646) 968-2525

Live Webcast: https://edge.media-server.com/mmc/p/6qbep94p

About Tempus

Tempus is a technology company advancing precision medicine through the practical application of artificial intelligence in healthcare. With one of the world's largest libraries of multimodal data, and an operating system to make that data accessible and useful, Tempus provides AI-enabled precision medicine solutions to physicians to deliver personalized patient care and in parallel facilitates discovery, development and delivery of optimal therapeutics. The goal is for each patient to benefit from the treatment of others who came before by providing physicians with tools that learn as the company gathers more data. For more information, visit tempus.com.

View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20250211986523/en/

CONTACT: Tempus Communications

Erin Carron

Erin.carron@tempus.com

Tempus Investor Relations

Elizabeth Krutoholow

Elizabeth.krutoholow@tempus.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250211005301:0/)
