---
title: "Health Care Roundup: Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-14 01:20:00"
summary: "The latest Market Talks covering the Health Care sector. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires at 4:20 ET, 12:20 ET and 16:50 ET.0658 ET - Novartis's multiple patent expirations and limited pipeline readouts in 2025 pose major challenges for the Swiss drugmaker, UBS analysts say in a note. Novartis's heart..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The latest Market Talks covering the Health Care sector. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires at 4:20 ET, 12:20 ET and 16:50 ET.

0658 ET - Novartis's multiple patent expirations and limited pipeline readouts in 2025 pose major challenges for the Swiss drugmaker, UBS analysts say in a note. Novartis's heart drug Entresto, leukemia treatment Tasigna and blood clotting medicine Promacta will loose their patent in the U.S. in 2025 which will lead to a sharp deceleration in growth at mid-year, UBS analysts estimate. In addition, its expected key 2025 readout for its cardiovascular drug Pelacarsen has been delayed to 1H 2026 on a lower event rate, reducing output of clinical studies in 2025, they say. UBS downgrades its rating of the stock to neutral from buy. Shares fall 0.4% to 97.44 euros. (helena.smolak@wsj.com)

0643 ET - Roche is set for sustainable revenue and earnings growth, driven by in-market assets coupled with broad pipeline potential, UBS analysts say in a note. The Swiss pharma giant sees near-term growth from outperforming sales of eye drug Vabysmo and multiple-sclerosis treatment Ocrevus, UBS analysts say in a note. They consider the label extension for MS drug Ocrevus HD, Alzheimer drug trontinemab and its oral obesity candidate as key catalysts of its late-stage pipeline, with a $16 billion revenue potential. UBS upgrades its rating on the stock to buy from neutral. Shares are up 1.1% at 294.80 euros. (helena.smolak@wsj.com)

0605 ET - EssilorLuxottica looks set to benefit from innovation in technological products, Bryan Garnier analyst Cedric Rossi writes in a note. The Franco-Italian eyewear group booked fourth-quarter sales of 6.78 billion euros, 9.2% higher on year at constant currency, helped by the success of its tech products. Ray-Ban Meta wearables, which incorporate an AI assistant and cameras, reached 2 million units sold since their launch in 2023, with a strong acceleration in 2024. The analyst expects escalating sales and profit contributions from technological products across lenses, smart eyewear, audiology and medtech categories. "This new wave of technology is just beginning," the analyst says. Shares rise 5.7% to 291.60 euros. (andrea.figueras@wsj.com)

0554 ET - EssilorLuxottica's confirmation of midterm margin guidance casts doubts, UBS analysts write in a research note. The Ray-Ban maker maintained expectations of mid-single-digit annual revenue growth through 2026 at constant exchange rates. It also targets an adjusted operating margin between 19% and 20% by the end of that period. This implies a margin expansion of nearly 100 basis points a year, which could be challenging due to the ongoing investments, UBS says. Shares are up 5.6% at 291.40 euros. (andrea.figueras@wsj.com)

0548 ET - AstraZeneca stands out among peers with its diversified pipeline of new experimental drugs and extensions for on-market assets, UBS analysts say in a note. "Clearly some studies will fail, but 2025 is a key catalyst year with data on seven high-value new drugs," they say. Its new small-cell lung and bladder indications for cancer drug Imfinzi and its late stage trials to broaden the label of pulmonary disease treatment Breztri are promising, they say. UBS analysts estimate that the British pharma company's late-stage pipeline has potential to add a further $17.6 billion sales in 2030. UBS upgrades its rating on the stock to buy from neutral. Shares are up 1.7% at 120.00 pounds. (helena.smolak@wsj.com)

0340 ET - EssilorLuxottica posted better-than-expected sales for the fourth quarter, Jefferies analysts write in a note to clients. The Franco-Italian eyewear group behind reported 6.78 billion euros in sales, up 9.2% on year at constant currency. That is above Visible Alpha consensus of 6.5% growth, the analysts point out. Sales were lifted by a recovery in North America, where revenue grew 7.8% at constant currency to 3.15 billion euros. The company said its North American business had its best quarter of the year. EssilorLuxottica shares trade 2.4% higher at 282.70 euros. (mauro.orru@wsj.com)

0017 ET - Top Glove's earnings outlook is expected to remain neutral, with its risk-reward profile looking balanced to Citi analyst Megat Fais. Top Glove has strong capacity to absorb additional demand but faces potential risks from increased competition in non-U.S. markets, the analyst says in a note. The bank notes that the wider Malaysian glove sector faces a positive outlook due to improving demand-supply dynamics and could gain from additional tariffs on Chinese gloves. Citi cuts its FY 2025-FY 2027 EPS forecasts for the glove maker by 11%, 8%, and 2%, respectively, citing recent trends. Citi raises Top Glove's target price to MYR1.23 from MYR1.07 as it rolls forward valuations to end-FY 2026, while maintaining a neutral rating on the stock. Shares are 1.6% lower at MYR1.20. (yingxian.wong@wsj.com)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250213012678:0/)
