---
title: "Passenger Plane With 10 People on Board Goes Missing in Alaska — WSJ"
date: "2025-02-08 02:18:00"
summary: "By Gareth VipersAuthorities in Alaska are searching for a commercial passenger plane that went missing in freezing, windy conditions over the Bering Sea, the third major U.S. aviation incident in the past 10 days.The single-engine plane operated by regional carrier Bering Air had nine passengers and a pilot on board..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Gareth Vipers

Authorities in Alaska are searching for a commercial passenger plane that went missing in freezing, windy conditions over the Bering Sea, the third major U.S. aviation incident in the past 10 days.

The single-engine plane operated by regional carrier Bering Air had nine passengers and a pilot on board when its position was lost at around 3:20 p.m. local time Thursday, according to the Alaska Department of Public Safety.

The Coast Guard, U.S. Air Force and National Guard were involved in an air and land search for the plane, which was roughly 12 miles offshore when its position was lost, authorities said. The Federal Bureau of Investigation was trying to track the passengers through their cellphones, according to the local fire department.

The incident comes just over a week after 67 people were killed in a midair collision between an American Airlines passenger jet and a Black Hawk army helicopter in Washington, D.C. Two days later, seven people died when a medical transport jet crashed in a fiery explosion near a mall in northeast Philadelphia. The recent crashes have stirred fears among some fliers.

The missing plane was traveling from the city of Unalakleet to Nome, across the Norton Sound, an inlet of the Bering Sea on the western coast of Alaska. The flight usually takes less than an hour.

The plane departed Unalakleet, a small fishing village with a population of around 800 people, on schedule at 2:38 p.m. local time, according to flight data. After making its way west across the Norton Sound, the pilot told air-traffic controllers in Anchorage that he intended to enter a holding pattern while they waited for the runway at Nome to be cleared.

The temperature in the Nome area was around 9 degrees at the time with light snow, gusty winds and limited visibility, according to the National Weather Service.

Shortly after that call flight data shows the plane's altitude drop before its position was lost just offshore.

The Nome Police Department had asked residents with boats to assist the search but later said it had received enough offers of help. The local fire department said weather conditions and visibility in the region were poor and warned residents against forming their own search parties.

Bering Air operates 39 aircraft, all small passenger and cargo planes and helicopters. The Nome-based carrier operates scheduled passenger and cargo flights seven days a week to 32 communities along the northwest coast of Alaska, according to the company website. The company didn't immediately respond to requests for comment.

The National Transportation Safety Board said it was monitoring the situation. The Federal Aviation Administration issued a search-and-rescue notice for the missing Cessna plane on Thursday afternoon local time.

Sparsely-populated Alaska is more dependent on air travel than any other part of the U.S., with 82% of communities accessible only by air, according to the FAA.

Many of the aircraft in the state are smaller, often single engine planes without sophisticated weather or deicing systems, according to a 2021 report by the FAA into Alaskan aviation safety. There is also a lack of aviation infrastructure in the state, which, coupled with challenging terrain and extreme weather, can make flying in Alaska more dangerous than other places, the report said.

* Alyssa Lukpat contributed to this article.

Write to Gareth Vipers at gareth.vipers@wsj.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250207004692:0/)
