---
title: "Global Forex and Fixed Income Roundup: Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-14 14:07:00"
summary: "The latest Market Talks covering FX and Fixed Income. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.0607 GMT - The Philippines central bank's reason for an easing pause is clear: it wants policy to be flexible amid trade uncertainties, HSBC economist Aris Dacanay says. \"BSP isn't alone here,\" he..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The latest Market Talks covering FX and Fixed Income. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.

0607 GMT - The Philippines central bank's reason for an easing pause is clear: it wants policy to be flexible amid trade uncertainties, HSBC economist Aris Dacanay says. "BSP isn't alone here," he says, with flexibility also a priority for Bank of Thailand at its last meeting. That's an asset in the event of sudden Fed rates repricing, and an easing pause supports the peso and mitigates the risk of FX-driven inflation, he adds. The hold implies that FX volatility remains a concern but currency worries could be eclipsed if domestic growth continues to underperform, he says. BSP may eventually cut more than the Fed to make the peso more competitive, and aid exports at a time when supply chains are shifting. HSBC expects BSP to resume cutting in June. (fabiana.negrinochoa@wsj.com)

0517 GMT - The Bank of Thailand is mostly likely to lower rates in April, Citi Research economist Nalin Chutchotitham says in a report. This view is based on factors including an expected narrowing of Thailand's negative output gap in the near term and domestic inflation remaining above 1% in 1Q, the economist says. However, there's a risk that the BOT might cut rates sooner, in February, given that monetary policy operates with a long lag and any material downside surprises in the upcoming 4Q 2024 GDP data could increase this risk, the economist adds. (ronnie.harui@wsj.com)

0509 GMT - China isn't an obvious target for reciprocal tariffs, but that doesn't mean Beijing can breathe a sigh of relief, Capital Economics says. On the commonly used most-favored-nation tariff schedules, China's average tariff rate on U.S. imports is 4.1% higher than vice versa, but this excludes tariffs imposed since the first trade war, economist Julian Evans-Pritchard writes. "Adjusting for that, we estimate that China's average tariff rate on U.S. imports is actually 7.5% lower than in the other direction." Reciprocal tariffs highlight how serious Trump is about reducing the trade deficit--not just in terms of tariff rates, but also regarding tax regimes, non-tariff barriers and exchange rate policies, he says. The broad set of criteria suggests ample scope to justification for further tariffs on China. (fabiana.negrinochoa@wsj.com)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250214000553:0/)
