---
title: "Shopify Stock Is Falling After Earnings. What We Know. — Barrons.com"
date: "2025-02-11 21:14:00"
summary: "By Emily DattiloShopify turned in quarterly revenue and gross merchandise volume above estimates, but it wasn't enough to lift shares.Shopify stock fell 8.4% to $109.85 in premarket trading Tuesday.For its fourth quarter, the e-commerce platform reported revenue of $2.81 billion, beating Wall Street's call for $2.73 billion, according to FactSet.Gross..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Emily Dattilo

Shopify turned in quarterly revenue and gross merchandise volume above estimates, but it wasn't enough to lift shares.

Shopify stock fell 8.4% to $109.85 in premarket trading Tuesday.

For its fourth quarter, the e-commerce platform reported revenue of $2.81 billion, beating Wall Street's call for $2.73 billion, according to FactSet.

Gross merchandise volume — or the total value of orders processed on the Shopify platform — was $94.46 billion, higher than analysts' forecasts of $92.79 billion.

For the first quarter, the company forecasts revenue to grow at a mid-twenties percentage rate on a year-over-year basis, while analysts had forecast revenue increasing about 24.5%. "We expect the strong merchant momentum from Q4 to carry over into Q1, recognizing that Q1 is consistently our lowest GMV quarter seasonally," Shopify said in a statement.

Prior to the quarterly report, J.P. Morgan analysts Reginald Smith and Charles Pearce, who rate Shopify at Overweight with a price target of $121, weighed in on what they expected from the company in the quarter.

"A healthy 4Q beat seems likely based on broader spending and e-commerce trends, and we think mgmt. will guide to at least mid-20% revenue growth for 1Q25," analysts wrote. "That said, to hold recent gains, we think mgmt.'s commentary needs to strike the delicate balance between investment and margin expansion in '25."

"We would be buyers on any weakness, as we are bullish on SHOP's margin expansion opportunity longer term," they added.

Write to Emily Dattilo at emily.dattilo@dowjones.com

This content was created by Barron's, which is operated by Dow Jones & Co. Barron's is published independently from Dow Jones Newswires and The Wall Street Journal.

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250211004260:0/)
