---
title: "CVS Offers Some Assurance to Investors for 2025 — WSJ"
date: "2025-02-12 19:31:00"
summary: "By Anna Wilde MathewsCVS Health closed out a difficult year with earnings that beat Wall Street's lowered expectations, and projected improved results in 2025.The healthcare company has contended with higher-than-expected medical costs in its Aetna insurance unit. Those have pushed the insurer into the red, dragging down overall earnings and..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Anna Wilde Mathews

CVS Health closed out a difficult year with earnings that beat Wall Street's lowered expectations, and projected improved results in 2025.

The healthcare company has contended with higher-than-expected medical costs in its Aetna insurance unit. Those have pushed the insurer into the red, dragging down overall earnings and leading CVS to miss a series of financial targets in 2024.

CVS predicted annual adjusted earnings of between $5.75 and $6 a share this year-up from $5.42 in last year, and broadly in line with Wall Street consensus expectations, according to FactSet.

The company recently installed a new chief executive, David Joyner. He has said he aims to fix the problems at Aetna and reestablish CVS's credibility with investors.

Highlights from fourth-quarter results:

* Adjusted earnings totaled $1.19 a share, beating the FactSet consensus estimate of 91 cents.
* Net income fell to $1.62 billion, from $2.05 billion a year earlier, even as revenue rose.
* The medical-loss ratio was 94.8%, lower than forecasts. This closely watched medical spending measure reflects the share of insurer premiums spent on healthcare costs.
* The healthcare benefits segment, which encompasses Aetna, had an adjusted operating loss of $439 million.

This item is part of a Wall Street Journal live coverage event. The full stream can be found by searching P/WSJL (WSJ Live Coverage).

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250212005161:0/)
