---
title: "Global Equities Roundup: Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-11 07:26:00"
summary: "The latest Market Talks covering Equities. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.1825 ET - SGH's shares rise 9% soon after Australia's market opens, with Jefferies calling out profit margins at building materials unit Boral as the highlight of its 1H result. SGH reported a 14.3% Ebit margin..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The latest Market Talks covering Equities. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.

1825 ET - SGH's shares rise 9% soon after Australia's market opens, with Jefferies calling out profit margins at building materials unit Boral as the highlight of its 1H result. SGH reported a 14.3% Ebit margin for Boral in 1H, well above consensus forecasts of 11.7%. That drove a 9% beat to market hopes for Boral's Ebit. "Margin delivery is impressive given weaker volumes and likely operating deleverage," analyst Kai Erman says. SGH reaffirmed expectations for high single-digit Ebit growth in FY 2025, which Jefferies considers to be conservative. Jefferies retains a hold call on SGH. (david.winning@wsj.com; @dwinningWSJ)

1812 ET - CAR Group's guidance downgrade for its U.S. business doesn't worry Macquarie analysts, who see double-digit annual revenue growth as sustainable. They acknowledge that CAR's move to lower its outlook for Trader Interactive revenue growth prompted analysts to debate its significance, but ultimately decide that it was related to a delayed price rise. The Macquarie analysts tell clients in a note that it the company is sensible to align timing with the seasonal recovery of the recreational vehicle market. Macquarie raises its target price 5.1% to A$39.00 and stays neutral on the stock, which is down 3.3% at A$37.10. (stuart.condie@wsj.com)

1741 ET - Morgan Stanley is bullish about bottle maker Orora despite tariff threats from the White House. "Though a 25% tariff on Mexican goods into the U.S. would be a net negative for Orora, we think this is well and truly in the share price at current levels," analyst Andrew G. Scott says. While the Americas region accounts for 28% of sales at Orora's Saverglass business, much of this volume is manufactured and sold within Mexico, Morgan Stanley says. Tequila is Saverglass's most significant spirits category, accounting for 23% of spirits volumes. Tequila is classified as protected designation of origin, meaning it cannot be sourced from other, tariff-free markets, Morgan Stanley says. "Orora does have the ability to serve U.S. markets from other locations, in particular from the RAK facility in Dubai," the bank adds. (david.winning@wsj.com; @dwinningWSJ)

1723 ET - Industrial conglomerate SGH's shares could outperform Australia's benchmark ASX today after its 1H Ebit beat consensus hopes. SGH reported Ebit of A$843 million, up 10% on year and supported by better-than-expected margins at construction unit Boral. In a note, Barrenjoey says consensus forecasts had pointed to 5% Ebit growth. Still, SGH maintained guidance for high single-digit growth in annual Ebit, which implies a slower pace of improvement in 2H. "For FY 2025, consensus interest and tax forecasts will need to rise, which may drive negative EPS revisions," says analyst Brook Campbell-Crawford. "However, we think the large operational beat is enough for the shares to outperform." Barrenjoey has an overweight call on SGH, which ended Monday at A$48.66. (david.winning@wsj.com; @dwinningWSJ)

1716 ET - Australia's S&P/ASX 200 looks set to rise at the open, following a bounce in U.S. equities. ASX futures are up by 0.4% ahead of Tuesday's session, which will give investors a chance to respond to earnings reports and trading updates by companies including financial giant Macquarie, engineering and construction conglomerate SGH, and small-appliance manufacturer Breville. Macquarie said its profit for the nine months through December was broadly in line with that of a year earlier. Australian gold stocks could find support from further strength in the price of the yellow metal. In the U.S., the DJIA rose 0.4%, the S&P 500 added 0.7%, and the Nasdaq Composite gained 1.0%. (stuart.condie@wsj.com)

1702 ET - Ansell's second-half earnings growth looks likely to be driven by its acquisition from Kimberly-Clark and cost benefits, Citi analyst Mathieu Chevrier writes in a note. He tells clients that about two thirds of the protective-garment manufacturer's fiscal first-half Ebit growth stemmed from the assets acquired from Kimberly-Clark on July 1. The assets are performing better than expected and their integration is ahead of schedule, which Chevrier observes will lead to some cost synergy in the June half. Citi lifts its target price 17% to A$38.00 and keeps a neutral rating on the stock, which is at A$37.77 ahead of the open. (stuart.condie@wsj.com)

1649 ET - A 25% U.S. tariff on Canadian aluminum "will be so destructive for industrial aluminum value chain in the U.S. that it cannot last," says Jean Simard, CEO of the Aluminium Association of Canada. Simard tells WSJ he's hoping the Trump administration will carve out Canadian-made aluminum from the president's decision to impose a 25% tariff on imported steel and aluminum. Simard says small- and mid-sized U.S. manufacturers will be stuck paying vastly more for the metal which is used to build cars, aerospace products, and consumer appliances. "At some point in time, some products will be priced out of the market and replaced by foreign imports," Simard predicts. Canada supplies about 60% of the aluminum the U.S. imports. (paul.vieira@wsj.com; @paulvieira)

1613 ET - Ansell loses its bulls at Jefferies despite the protective-garment manufacturer's success with its US$640 million acquisition from Kimberly-Clark. Analysts Vanessa Thomson and David Stanton cut their recommendation on the stock to hold from buy, telling clients in a note that it is trading at an 11% premium to its 10-year average price-to-earnings despite the prospect of moderating sales growth. That said, they are positive on Ansell's productivity and acquisition programs, pointing out that the former Kimberly-Clark unit is on track to be fully integrated by the end of its current fiscal year. Jefferies raises its target price 7.7% to A$42.00. Shares are at A$37.77 ahead of the open. (stuart.condie@wsj.com)

1604 ET - U.S. stocks rise behind strength in energy and information technology sectors as traders largely shrug off worries that President Trump's planned steel and aluminum tariffs could ignite a trade war. Steel companies do get a lift from that news. Gold extends its recent record run as investors seek some safety. McDonald's is the best performing Dow component, rising 4.8% as strength in it international business helps offset a decline in U.S. same-store sales. DJIA rises 167 points, or 0.4%, to 44470, the S&P 500 gains 0.7% to 6066 and the Nasdaq climbs 1% to 19714. Investors await congressional testimony from Fed's Powell for any hints of next policy move. (patrick.sullivan@wsj.com)

1534 ET - Lyft's recent revenue growth could be unsustainable due to shifting labor market conditions and reduced driver incentives, Third Bridge analyst Albie Amankona says in a research note. The ride-hailing app is facing mounting pressure in its core ridesharing business, and it isn't expected to regain significant market share against Uber Technologies anytime soon, Amankona adds. Overall, Lyft's biggest growth opportunity lies in media advertising, or a potential deal with Amazon.com. "An acquisition of Lyft could give Amazon a major boost in the autonomous vehicle race." Owning Lyft would give Amazon more control over pricing and competition, especially against rivals like Waymo. Plus, integrating Lyft could enhance Amazon's existing businesses, like Prime and Whole Foods, creating a new ecosystem for cross-promotion, Amankona adds. Lyft shares rise 5.5%, with Amazon shares up 2%. (sabela.ojea@wsj.com; @sabelaojeaguix)

1517 ET - The estimated funding level of pension plans sponsored by S&P 1500 companies increased 1 percentage point in January to 110% as a result of an increase in equity markets and discount rates, according to consulting firm Mercer LLC. As of the end of January, the plans' estimated aggregate surplus increased by $23 billion, to $158 billion, compared with a $135 billion surplus at the end of December, Mercer said. "Markets will be closely watching for the economic impact of the recently announced tariffs and other potential executive actions," said Mercer partner Matt McDaniel. "The Fed continues to take a 'wait and see' approach with interest rates leaving plan sponsors a lot of uncertainty to process to start the new year." (jennifer.williams@wsj.com; @jenkayw)

1425 ET - Shopify may come out unscathed from a tariff situation, says RWM Commerce Consulting CEO Rick Watson. "I am not sure it significantly changes the game for Shopify or its merchants. They have not been overly advantaged or disadvantaged," he says. The company has come out in support of free trade, since 15% of its business is cross-border, they benefit more from fewer walls in place. "It's a similar statement to what you might have seen someone like eBay say in years past," he says. Watson notes that chaos in general is not good for any business, so it could create some corporate indecision in the short-term, but this should settle down at some point." (adriano.marchese@wsj.com)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250210012123:0/)
