---
title: "Coinbase Earnings to Show What's Next for Crypto After Its Trump Bump — Barrons.com"
date: "2025-02-13 16:00:00"
summary: "By Joe LightDonald Trump's reascent to the White House gave investors in Bitcoin and Coinbase Global plenty of reason to cheer. The new president has promised to pump up the industry in the U.S. with lighter regulation. After the bell on Thursday, investors will learn whether that jubilation translated into..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Joe Light

Donald Trump's reascent to the White House gave investors in Bitcoin and Coinbase Global plenty of reason to cheer. The new president has promised to pump up the industry in the U.S. with lighter regulation. After the bell on Thursday, investors will learn whether that jubilation translated into higher profits.

Coinbase is expected to report fourth-quarter earnings per share of $2.11 and revenue of $1.84 billion, according to analyst estimates compiled by FactSet. That would compare to EPS of $1.04 and revenue of $954 million in the fourth quarter of 2023.

Trump's election was a boon to crypto prices and Coinbase stock. Coinbase stock since Trump's victory has risen by about 40% to $272. That's about the same climb as Bitcoin, which is up 42% to $96,882.

Driving the gains are Trump's promises to make the U.S. the "crypto capital of the world" by ushering in a lighter regulatory regime. Trump has installed or nominated crypto-friendly regulators at the Securities and Exchange Commission, Federal Deposit Insurance Corp., and Commodity Futures Trading Commission, among other agencies.

The SEC under acting Chairman Mark Uyeda is already moving forward with a crypto working group to develop ways for the industry to operate legally in the U.S., while venture capitalist David Sacks is leading a similar effort for the White House.

The changes are important for Coinbase, which the SEC sued in 2023 for allegedly operating an unregistered securities exchange. Coinbase has fought those charges. Under Trump's SEC, there's a good likelihood the agency will drop the case or settle in a way that lets Coinbase keep doing business as usual.

Coinbase didn't respond to a request for comment. Company executives told Barron's last year that a change in the SEC's stance could lead it to offer more tokens for trading and other crypto services that could grow the company's revenues.

The regulatory changes are a two-edged sword for Coinbase, which might see increased competition from traditional brokers that choose to move into crypto trading in light of friendlier regulators.

Analysts estimate total trading volume on Coinbase in the fourth quarter was $216 billion, up from $185 billion in the third quarter and $154 billion in the fourth quarter of 2023. That's well below the $312 billion Coinbase saw in the first quarter of last year when the approval of the first spot Bitcoin exchange-traded funds drove renewed interest in crypto trading.

Investors will also be looking for continued growth in Coinbase's subscription and services business, which includes revenue the company earns from its stablecoin USDC. The company in that segment is expected to report revenue of $611 million, up from $375 million a year earlier.

Write to Joe Light at joe.light@barrons.com

This content was created by Barron's, which is operated by Dow Jones & Co. Barron's is published independently from Dow Jones Newswires and The Wall Street Journal.

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250213003827:0/)
