---
title: "Global Forex and Fixed Income Roundup: Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-14 10:14:00"
summary: "The latest Market Talks covering FX and Fixed Income. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.2100 ET - A former senior manager at the Reserve Bank of Australia has warned that the central bank must deliver a \"hawkish cut\" if it lowers rates next week, saying economic conditions..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The latest Market Talks covering FX and Fixed Income. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.

2100 ET - A former senior manager at the Reserve Bank of Australia has warned that the central bank must deliver a "hawkish cut" if it lowers rates next week, saying economic conditions don't justify the three cuts money markets currently anticipate this year. Jonathan Kearns, chief economist at investment manager Challenger, also argues that the probability of a cut at the RBA's policy meeting next week is much less than the near-90% priced by markets, adding that the central bank will debate credible cases to cut, and not to cut. (james.glynn@wsj.com; @JamesGlynnWSJ)

2105 ET - Trump's apparent pivot away from a flat universal tariff to ones on a country-by-country basis will likely lead to an even bigger rise in average tariffs and in U.S. consumer prices, says Capital Economics' Paul Ashworth. "We have no idea of the formula to be used to calculate the reciprocal tariffs," the chief North America economist says, adding that if valued-added tax and the most-favored nation tariffs rates are included, India and Brazil will be hit the hardest, followed by the EU, UK, Mexico and Canada. As for "winners," he names Singapore, Taiwan and South Korea. The average effective tariffs on U.S. imports would jump to around 20% from less than 3%, adding roughly 2% to prices, temporarily pushing inflation to 4% later this year, he says. (fabiana.negrinochoa@wsj.com)

2040 ET - The PBOC's 4Q monetary policy report released Thursday implies the Chinese central bank is presently prioritizing financial stability over immediate monetary policy easing, Goldman Sachs Research team says in a research report. The PBOC pledged to intensify monetary policy easing when appropriate and had strong language on FX management, the team notes. Given ongoing deflationary pressures in China, however, monetary policy easing is needed, says GS, which forecasts 50 bps of reserve requirement ratio cuts each in 1Q and 3Q and 20bp policy rate cuts in both 2Q and 4Q. (ronnie.harui@wsj.com)

1937 ET - For Spark NZ, this year likely won't be as bad as 2024, which included two downgrades to its guidance. Still, Forsyth Barr says the New Zealand telco's improvement will be driven by cost savings rather than revenue growth. Analyst Aaron Ibbotson expects Spark NZ's cash flow generation will be positive again, partly due to big cut in capex. But while its free cash flow is improving, it won't cover its dividend in FY 2025, Forsyth Barr says. "Further non-core assets sales may be announced in order to cover its dividend shortfall or fund its data center developments," Forsyth Barr says. Spark NZ is due to report its 1H results on Feb. 21. (david.winning@wsj.com; @dwinningWSJ)

1932 ET - Asian currencies consolidate against the dollar in the morning session as traders assess U.S. President Trump's tariff policy. Trump on Thursday ordered federal agencies to explore how to adjust U.S. tariffs to match those of other countries. However, Trump's order stops short of actually imposing tariffs immediately. "Tariff ambiguity still reigns," NAB's Ray Attrill says in a commentary. "But, markets are currently drawing some comfort from the news the next set won't come into effect before April," the head of FX Research says. USD/JPY is 0.1% lower at 152.63; USD/KRW edges 0.1% higher to 1,441.53; AUD/USD is little changed at 0.6318. (ronnie.harui@wsj.com)

1920 ET - Most JGBs edge higher in the morning Tokyo session, tracking overnight price gains in U.S. Treasurys. Both JGBs and Treasurys tend to move in tandem. Market focus today may be on the Japanese Finance Ministry's scheduled auction of 2.3 trillion yen of five-year sovereign notes. If today's auction goes smoothly, the rise in yields since end-January may take a breather, SMBC Nikko Securities' senior Japan rates strategist Ataru Okumura says. The 5-year JGB yield is down 1bp at 0.990%; the 10-year yield is down 1bp at 1.340%; the 30-year yield is up 0.5bps at 2.325%. (ronnie.harui@wsj.com)

1846 ET - Japanese stocks may trade rangebound as uncertainty over borrowing costs and U.S. trade policies continues. Nikkei futures are up 0.1% at 39450 on the SGX. USD/JPY is at 153.07, down from 154.02 as of Thursday's Tokyo stock market close. Investors are focusing on domestic earnings and U.S. trade policies. Eneos Holdings and Asahi Group Holdings are scheduled to announce their quarterly results later in the day. The Nikkei Stock Average rose 1.3% to 39461.47 on Thursday. (kosaku.narioka@wsj.com)

1838 ET - Two Estonian nationals who founded cryptocurrency mining business HashFlare each pleaded guilty to one count of conspiracy to commit wire fraud, the U.S. Justice Department said. Federal prosecutors said Sergei Potapenko and Ivan Turõgin sold contracts worth more than $577 million to customers for a share of cryptocurrency mined by HashFlare between 2015 and 2019. But prosecutors alleged that HashFlare didn't have the computing capacity required to perform the level of mining claimed by the founders, and that HashFlare operated a "massive, multi-faceted cryptocurrency Ponzi scheme" in which the two defendants used the proceeds to purchase real estate and luxury cars. (mengqi.sun@wsj.com; @\_MengqiSun)

1752 ET - AUD/USD has strengthened this week, and now trades above 0.6300, having fallen below 0.6250 at one point, but it remains vulnerable because "peak tariff" has not been reached yet, says Joe Capurso, economist at CBA. U.S. President Trump has signaled the implementation of more tariffs on imports and even if Australia can convince the U.S. government to not impose tariffs, some Australian exports to third economies are part of the export supply chain to the U.S., he adds. CBA estimates 2.4% of Australian GDP satisfies U.S. domestic demand through direct and indirect exports, he adds. (james.glynn@wsj.com; @JamesGlynnWSJ)

1542 ET - Treasury yields give back gains recorded after yesterday's hotter-than-expected consumer inflation. Wholesale inflation today indicates that prices might not be running away from the Fed's 2% target, after all. PPI accelerated in January, but items that feed into the Fed's preferred gauge, the PCE, were lukewarm. Forecasters now see core PCE, due Feb. 28, climbing down from December's 2.8%. Meanwhile, President Trump indicates retaliatory tariffs could be imposed by early April. The 10-year yield drops 0.108 percentage point to 4.524%, snapping a five-day winning streak. The two-year falls 0.056 p.p. to 4.309%. (paulo.trevisani@wsj.com; @ptrevisani)

1523 ET [Dow Jones]--The perceived frontrunner to become Canada's Liberal Party leader and next prime minister, Mark Carney, says there could be a national election as early as mid-March, after party members pick a new leader. Political analysts believe there likely will be an election in the spring, as the opposition parties have vowed to take down the minority Liberal government when parliament resumes March 24. Recent polling shows momentum for the Liberals, with the Conservative Party lead narrowing. Carney says any decision will reflect where things stand with the Trump administration's tariff threats. "If parliament needs to be recalled for certain reasons, it will be. If it makes sense to get a strong mandate at that point, that is what will follow," says Carney, the former Canadian and UK central banker. (paul.vieira@wsj.com)

1433 ET - There wasn't much good news in Wednesday's hotter-than-expected consumer-price-index numbers. But the Fed's preferred inflation metric, PCE inflation, probably has better tidings in store, and will be more important in determining the central bank's next steps, writes Neil Dutta of Renaissance Macro. Parsing CPI and PPI data, Dutta pencils in a 0.26% increase in core PCE in January, equating to a 2.6% 12-month core PCE inflation rate, a decline from 2.8% in December. The Fed will likely hold off on further rate cuts for the next several months, he believes. But "if inflation resumes its progress towards the Fed's objectives, I expect cuts to come in the back-half of the year," Dutta writes. (matt.grossman@wsj.com; @mattgrossman)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250213018171:0/)
