---
title: "Corn Futures Up Ahead of WASDE - Daily Grain Highlights"
date: "2025-02-11 04:29:00"
summary: "By Kirk MaltaisCorn for March delivery rose 0.9%, to $4.92 a bushel, on the Chicago Board of Trade on Monday, with trading seen as light ahead of Tuesday's WASDE report, which is expected to contain little in the way of surprising changes.Soybeans for March delivery were virtually unchanged, at $10.49..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Kirk Maltais

* Corn for March delivery rose 0.9%, to $4.92 a bushel, on the Chicago Board of Trade on Monday, with trading seen as light ahead of Tuesday's WASDE report, which is expected to contain little in the way of surprising changes.
* Soybeans for March delivery were virtually unchanged, at $10.49 1/2 a bushel.
* Wheat for March delivery fell 0.6%, to $5.79 1/2 a bushel.

HIGHLIGHTS

Light Work: Volumes traded in CBOT grain futures were light ahead of Tuesday's WASDE report from the USDA. But grain traders aren't expecting much in the way of changes to the U.S. supply-and-demand picture, keeping positioning subdued. "Tomorrow's report should be a yawner," said Linda Meyer of AgriSource. "Should see some upward revisions in corn exports and possibly ethanol." Other factors are also contributing to the risk-off attitude--like President Trump's tariff threats on major trading partners.

On One Side: WASDE report positioning was a factor Monday, but according to Friday's CFTC Commitments of Traders report, for corn there is little room for further long positions to be added. The net long through Feb. 4 is now over 364,000 contracts, said the CFTC. Profit-taking could happen ahead of the WASDE, said Tomm Pfitzenmaier of Summit Commodity Brokerage in a note, "although few in the trade are expecting a bearish surprise."

INSIGHT

Comforting Cushion: Last week, the USDA reported that it expects higher farm income in 2025, up $41 billion from 2024's levels, to $180.1 billion. But without an increased amount of federal aid coming as disaster relief, farm income appears mostly flat, said the American Farm Bureau Federation in a note. Federal money for farm country is forecast to rise over 300% in 2025, coming from The American Relief Act of 2025 passed in late 2024. But even with this, farmers remain uncertain on how they will receive these funds. "Many producers are still waiting for details on when and how these funds will be distributed, creating additional financial uncertainty as unpaid bills from 2024 continue to pile up," said Daniel Munch of the AFBF in a note.

The Show Must Go On: The USDA reports that Mexico has purchased 365,000 metric tons of U.S. corn for delivery in the 2024/25 marketing year. Even with an increasingly-tense world trade environment, Mexico is still buying large volumes of U.S. grains. The sale also comes after Mexico dropped its restrictions on GMO corn. Tuesday's WASDE may show changes to the USDA's estimates on South American production.

Room for Improvement: Grain export inspections were mostly higher for the week ended Feb. 6 versus last week and last year, the USDA said. Corn inspections for the week totaled 1.33 million metric tons, while wheat inspections totaled 536,217 tons. Soybean inspections fell from this time last week, with inspections totaling 1.04 million tons. The usual suspects were the leading destinations for U.S. grain shipments, this even with uncertainty coming from the Trump administration. Mexico was the leading destination for corn for the week, at 335,257 tons. The Philippines was the top destination for U.S. wheat at 186,641 tons, and China was the lead destination for soybeans at 554,661 tons.

AHEAD

* The USDA will release its monthly World Agricultural Supply and Demand Estimates report at noon ET Tuesday.
* The EIA will release its weekly ethanol production and stocks report at 10:30 a.m. ET Wednesday.
* The USDA will release its weekly export sales report at 8:30 a.m. ET Thursday.

Write to Kirk Maltais at kirk.maltais@wsj.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250210009031:0-corn-futures-up-ahead-of-wasde-daily-grain-highlights/)
