---
title: "Basic Materials Roundup: Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-12 05:50:00"
summary: "The latest Market Talks covering Basic Materials. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires at 4:20 ET, 12:20 ET and 16:50 ET.1426 ET - After setting a record high, front-month gold inches back--falling 0.1% to $2,912.50/oz, but still above that key $2,900 a troy ounce mark. The outlook for gold remains..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The latest Market Talks covering Basic Materials. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires at 4:20 ET, 12:20 ET and 16:50 ET.

1426 ET - After setting a record high, front-month gold inches back--falling 0.1% to $2,912.50/oz, but still above that key $2,900 a troy ounce mark. The outlook for gold remains strong as analysts forecast gold to climb above the $3,000/oz mark for the first time ever. "Gold continues to benefit from robust physical market demand as well as the reacceleration in inflation," says Trevor Yates of Global X. Gold ETFs are also strong, Yates adds, with gold miner ETFs outperforming gold and "offering more leverage to changes in the underlying commodity price." SPDR Gold shares are down 0.2%. (kirk.maltais@wsj.com)

0541 ET - Amsterdam-listed stainless steel company Aperam doesn't expect to be significantly affected by tariffs imposed by the U.S. on steel and aluminum imports, the company says. Aperam has limited exposure to the tariffs as most of its U.S. revenue comes from its recycling business, which isn't affected by the levy, the company says. Most of its sales are domestic in the areas it operates in, and Aperam's stainless-steel exports from Europe to the U.S. are minimal and specialized, it adds. This means customers can't easily source them elsewhere, the company says. Should third-party imports to the U.S. get deflected to Europe, Aperam says it expects the European Commission to adopt measures to protect the interests of its domestic steel producers. Shares trade 1.4% lower to 28.72 euros. (pierre.bertrand@wsj.com)

0308 ET - DSM-Firmenich will likely communicate on capital returns in advance of further divestment, Jefferies analysts write in a note. The sale of its stake in the Feed Enzymes Alliance to its partner Novonesis brings focus to its balance sheet, the analysts say. "The combination of this divestment and the previously announced Robertet sale represents around 1.8 billion euros of net proceeds from divestment," they add. This suggests that the Dutch nutrition, health and bioscience company could communicate on capital returns even before the finalized remaining Animal Nutrition and Health sale. Shares rise 3.8% to 99.48 euros. (najat.kantouar@wsj.com)

0145 ET - U.S. tariffs on steel and aluminum imports will likely have a limited direct impact on Asian countries, analysts at DBS Group research write in a note. While domestic U.S. players will benefit most from the higher prices, the U.S. depends highly on Canada and Mexico, which will suffer the most, they write. The exposure for Chinese steelmakers is negligible, while aluminum products from China accounted for only 3% of U.S. imports of the metal between 2020 and 2023. Indirect impacts include an increased supply of these metals to regional markets avoiding U.S. tariffs and U.S. inflation pressure from higher material prices. (kimberley.kao@wsj.com)

0140 ET - Outokumpu is closely monitoring developments after the U.S. imposed 25% tariffs on steel and aluminum imports, and says tariffs on imported goods are generally beneficial. The Finland-based stainless steel company says it is the second-largest stainless steel producer in the U.S., and it has a plant in Alabama. Tariffs on imported goods are helpful for the company's operations in the Americas amid significant stainless steel imports from Asia to North America, which Outokumpu says have often negatively impacted the company. It adds that imports have markedly risen in recent years and that it welcomes moves to establish a level playing field in North America. (pierre.bertrand@wsj.com)

2002 ET - BlueScope Steel is outperforming Australia's benchmark ASX 200 index after Prime Minister Anthony Albanese said the U.S. is considering exempting the country from tariffs on steel and aluminum. Albanese made the remarks following a call with President Trump. Albanese said Australia has a significant trade surplus with the U.S. dating back to the Truman administration and highlighted that BlueScope, which owns the North Star mill in Ohio, is the U.S.'s fifth-largest steel maker. The U.S. isn't a big destination for steel manufactured in Australia, which is mainly sold at home. BlueScope is up 1.7% today, outpacing a 0.2% rise by the ASX 200. (david.winning@wsj.com; @dwinningWSJ)

1831 ET - Macquarie takes a more bullish view of dividends from iron-ore miner Fortescue, starting from its 1H result this month. The bank raises its payout ratio to 70% of net profit, from 50%, meaning it now expects a dividend of A$0.52/share. "Fortescue will probably lever up to maintain high payout ratios as EPS declines and iron ore prices revert to long-term normalized levels," Macquarie says. That view prompts it to raise FY 2026-2028 payout expectations to 60%, which lifts its dividend forecasts by 20% over the period. "Under these assumptions (with falling EPS across FY 2025-2028), we expect Fortescue to yield 6.7%/4.5%/3.1%, respectively." The bank retains an underperform call on Fortescue. (david.winning@wsj.com; @dwinningWSJ)

1828 ET - Mining company South32's interim dividend could disappoint investors, reckons Macquarie. While South32 is likely to maintain its payout ratio at 40% of underlying earnings, the issue is that 1H profits will be thinner than the market expects, Macquarie says. It tips South32 to declare an interim dividend of 2.3 U.S. cents per share, representing a 27% miss to consensus forecasts. "However, given the materiality of the expected FY 2025 yield (1% annualized), we expect the focus at the results to be on free cash flow," Macquarie says. South32 is due to report its 1H result on Thursday. (david.winning@wsj.com; @dwinningWSJ)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250211011773:0/)
