---
title: "Orange Revenue Falls But Key Earnings Metric Returns to Growth in France"
date: "2025-02-13 15:09:00"
summary: "(06:30 GMT) *Orange 4Q Rev EUR10.43B(06:30 GMT) *Company-Compiled Consensus Saw Orange 4Q Rev at EUR10.47B(06:30 GMT) *Orange 4Q EBITDAaL EUR3.25B(06:30 GMT) *Company-Compiled Consensus Saw Orange 4Q EBITDAaL Excl. Spain at EUR3.21B(06:30 GMT) *Orange Declares Dividend of EUR0.75(06:30 GMT) *Orange Sees 2025 EBITDAaL growth of around 3%(06:30 GMT) *Orange Sees 2025..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

**(06:30 GMT)** \*Orange 4Q Rev EUR10.43B  
**(06:30 GMT)** \*Company-Compiled Consensus Saw Orange 4Q Rev at EUR10.47B  
**(06:30 GMT)** \*Orange 4Q EBITDAaL EUR3.25B  
**(06:30 GMT)** \*Company-Compiled Consensus Saw Orange 4Q EBITDAaL Excl. Spain at EUR3.21B  
**(06:30 GMT)** \*Orange Declares Dividend of EUR0.75  
**(06:30 GMT)** \*Orange Sees 2025 EBITDAaL growth of around 3%  
**(06:30 GMT)** \*Orange Sees 2025 eCAPEX in line with the Capital Market Day  
**(06:30 GMT)** \*Orange Raises 2025 Organic Cash Flow Target to at least EUR3.6B From EUR3.5B  
**(07:09 GMT)** Orange Revenue Falls But Key Earnings Metric Returns to Growth in France

By Najat Kantouar

Orange reported lower revenue for the fourth quarter, but posted a return to growth in a key earnings metric in France for the year as a whole.

The French telecommunications company posted a fall in fourth-quarter revenue to 10.43 billion euros, equivalent to $10.83 billion, from 11.58 billion euros for the same period a year earlier. This slightly missed company-compiled consensus of 10.47 billion euros. However, for the full year, revenue rose 1.2% to 40.26 billion euros.

Africa and the Middle East revenue rose by 13% in the fourth quarter, boosted by continued rapid growth in retail services. However, revenue in Europe fell by 2.3%, dragged by a sharp decline in wholesale services and other revenues. In France, revenue fell 0.6% as equipment sales fell 5.4%.

Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization and after leases--the company's preferred metric--rose 3.2% to 3.25 billion euros. Meanwhile, for the full year, France returned to Ebitdaal growth.

Looking ahead, Orange expects Ebitdaal growth of around 3% in 2025. The group also anticipates organic cash flow from telecom activities of at least 3.6 billion euros compared with an earlier expectation of 3.5 billion euros.

Write to Najat Kantouar at najat.kantouar@wsj.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250213001459:0/)
