---
title: "News Highlights: Top Global Markets News of the Day - Tuesday at 5 AM ET"
date: "2025-02-11 18:15:00"
summary: "China's Xi Is Building an Economic Fortress Against U.S. PressureAs Trump turns up the heat on Beijing, China is trying to become more technologically self-sufficient, but its efforts have a significant cost.European Commission Chief Vows Response to Trump's Steel TariffsThe unjustified tariffs on the EU would trigger firm and proportionate..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

**China's Xi Is Building an Economic Fortress Against U.S. Pressure**

As Trump turns up the heat on Beijing, China is trying to become more technologically self-sufficient, but its efforts have a significant cost.

**European Commission Chief Vows Response to Trump's Steel Tariffs**

The unjustified tariffs on the EU would trigger firm and proportionate countermeasures, Ursula von der Leyen said in a statement.

**BOE Key Rate Should Remain 'Well Above' Neutral, Mann Says**

The Bank of England should continue to restrain economic activity to ensure that households and businesses don't act in ways that would prolong a coming pickup in inflation, Catherine L. Mann said.

**French Jobs Market Remains Strong in Face of Economy Headwinds**

Unemployment unexpectedly edged down in the final months of last year, bucking expectations and keeping the rate close to its lowest level in more than 40 years.

**Chinese Auto Sales Fell in January on Subdued Demand**

Retail sales of passenger cars fell 12.1% in January from a year earlier, according to the China Passenger Car Association.

**South Korean State Think Tank Cuts 2025 Growth Forecast, Flags U.S. Tariff Risk**

The Korea Development Institute now forecasts South Korea's gross domestic product growth at 1.6% in 2025, largely due to deteriorating global trade conditions since Trump took office in the U.S.

**RBA's Looming Policy Meeting Set to Be a Tense Tightrope Walk**

If money market pricing is to be believed, an interest-rate cut by the Reserve Bank of Australia next week is nearly a done deal.

**Trump Imposes Global 25% Steel, Aluminum Tariffs**

The levies, which take effect March 4, are just the latest in a litany of tariff threats and impositions from the president in the first weeks of his second term.

**Trump Fires Another Tariff Salvo. When the Market Will Start to Care.**

President Donald Trump said over the weekend he plans to levy 25% tariffs on steel and aluminum imports.

**Trump's Conflicting Business Policies Sow Economic Uncertainty**

Companies are excited about the administration's focus on fossil fuels, lower taxes and deregulation. But confusion over tariffs, deportations, and federal cuts is getting in the way.

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250211002316:0-news-highlights-top-global-markets-news-of-the-day-tuesday-at-5-am-et/)
