---
title: "Wisconsin Authority Selling $235M of Bonds For Medical Facilities"
date: "2025-02-12 04:53:00"
summary: "By Patrick SheridanThe Wisconsin Health and Educational Facilities Authority plans to sell $235 million of municipal bonds to help pay for the development and construction of medical facilities around the state.The Series 2025 Revenue bonds are expected to be issued in three tranches of term bonds, according to the preliminary..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Patrick Sheridan

The Wisconsin Health and Educational Facilities Authority plans to sell $235 million of municipal bonds to help pay for the development and construction of medical facilities around the state.

The Series 2025 Revenue bonds are expected to be issued in three tranches of term bonds, according to the preliminary official statement posted Monday on MuniOS. Dates of sale and settlement for the bonds wasn't provided.

Proceeds from the sale will be lent to Aspirus Health, a non-profit health system that operates in Wisconsin, Michigan and Minnesota. Debt payments are backed solely from income and revenue earned by Aspirus.

The company will use that money for the construction, renovation and remodeling of certain health-care related facilities. The company's current master plan includes expansion of the Emergency Department and Birthing Center at the Aspirus Wausau Hospital and construction of a new hospital in Chippewa Falls.

Payments on the debt begin Aug. 15, and continue semiannually after that on Aug. 15 and Feb. 15.

The Aspirus Health system operates 18 hospitals and 130 outpatient locations with nearly 14,000 team members, including 1,300 employed physicians and advanced practice clinicians, according to the company's website.

S&P Global Ratings and Moody's assigned ratings of AA- and A1 to the bonds, respectively.

Barclays and BofA Securities are the underwriters of the offering.

Write to Patrick Sheridan at patrick.sheridan@wsj.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250211009390:0/)
