---
title: "Global Forex and Fixed Income Roundup: Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-08 04:45:00"
summary: "The latest Market Talks covering FX and Fixed Income. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.1545 ET - Treasury yields end a turbulent week going in different directions, as tariff threats spark fears of higher inflation in the short term and slowing economic growth later on. Forecasters have..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The latest Market Talks covering FX and Fixed Income. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.

1545 ET - Treasury yields end a turbulent week going in different directions, as tariff threats spark fears of higher inflation in the short term and slowing economic growth later on. Forecasters have been trying to estimate the impact of tariffs on prices, but the task has been complicated by the Trump administration's on-and-off approach. January consumer and producer price index are both due next week and little change is expected. Future markets show diminishing bets on more than one cut by the Fed this year. The 10-year falls 0.083 percentage point this week, to 4.483%, while the two-year rises 0.042 p.p. to 4.277%. (paulo.trevisani@wsj.com; @ptrevisani)

1532 ET - Borrowing by consumers marked one of its largest increases in months to close out 2024. Outstanding consumer credit rose at a 9.6% seasonally adjusted annual rate in December, after declining by 1.3% in November. It was a sharp increase after consumer credit tended to grow at a roughly 1% to 2% rate for most of 2024. The December jump was led by a 20% increase in revolving consumer credit, which includes credit-card debt, but also included a 5.8% jump in non-revolving credit, which includes loans for cars, mobile homes, education and other items. The data exclude loans backed by real estate. (mat.grossman@wsj.com, @mattgrossman)

1457 ET - The USDA says this week that it expects farmers to finish 2025 with a net income of$180.1 billion. That would be up $41 billion over last year's figure, which the USDA also revised lower to $139.1 billion. However, cash receipts from crop sales are not expected to increase, actually inching lower from 2024. Instead, the USDA says that direct government payments to farmers is expected to more than triple in 2025, to $42.4 billion. The USDA's projection comes as uncertainty surrounding President Trump's tariffs and foreign policy builds — with 'reciprocal' tariffs said to be coming next week for a yet unidentified set of countries. Most-active corn on the CBOT is down 1.7%, soybeans down 1.1%, and wheat off 1%. (kirk.maltais@wsj.com)

1213 ET - The dollar strengthens as Reuters reports that President Trump told Republican lawmakers he is about to announce tariffs on trade partners that impose such levies on American exports. The WSJ Dollar Index and the ICE's DXY are both up around 0.3%. The greenback was sluggish in early trade. It is now up 0.3% versus the euro and around 0.3% stronger against the Chinese yuan, the Brazilian real and the Indian rupee. (paulo.trevisani@wsj.com; @ptrevisani)

1139 ET - Besides the headline jobs gain, the most notable item in Canada's employment data for January is the deceleration in average hourly wages, says market-research firm Rosenberg Research. "If the labor market was tight to any degree, compensation would not be moderating at all, let alone to this extent," says firm founder David Rosenberg and economist Robert Embree. Annual hourly wage increases slow to 3.5% as of January, from a recent peak of 4.9% in October. Rosenberg contends President Trump is unlikely to slap hefty tariffs on Canadian imports, but the uncertainty stemming from Trump's policy direction will lead to slower business investment and hiring. The firm still expect 4 or more cuts in 2025, even without Trump tariffs. (paul.vieira@wsj.com; @paulvieira)

1122 ET - The release of a working paper on the neutral interest rate by the European Central Bank didn't meet high expectations, leaving plenty of room for further rate cuts, ING economist Carsten Brzeski says in a note. The analysis suggests the theoretical level that neither stimulates nor restrains economic activity, or neutral rate, is between 1.75% and 2.25% when using most recent data. "Are we now any more knowledgeable about how far the ECB will cut interest rates? No," Brzeski says. Moreover, the problem with the concept of the neutral rate is that it can change over time, over the cycle and over different economic models. ING continues to pencil in rate cuts to at least 2% by the summer, from 2.75% currently. (edward.frankl@wsj.com)

1120 ET - The risk premia, also referred to as credit spreads, on euro-denominated credit are expected to remain tight in the coming weeks, supported by strong demand, Societe Generale's Juan Valencia says in a note. Investors have cash that is likely to be invested in euro corporate bonds, boosting demand in the market, he says. Spreads are unlikely to tighten too much more, however. "Credit spreads are tight, in our view, and we no longer expect a strong rally," Valencia says. (miriam.mukuru@wsj.com)

1116 ET - As markets digest January payrolls, inflation reports due next week come to focus. Labor and consumer sentiment data keep the Fed on track to hold interest rates. Bond yields and the dollar rise while stocks fall, following the data. Bank of America expects a 0.3% monthly increase on both headline and core CPI on Wednesday. It sees the headline 12-month reading slowing slightly to 2.8% from 2.9% and core slipping to 3.1% from 3.2%. "Residual seasonality and base effects are likely to have played a role, adding noise to the report," BofA economists write. "For now, we continue to expect the Fed to remain on hold." PPI inflation is due Thursday. (paulo.trevisani@wsj.com; @ptrevisani)

1054 ET - Canada's labor market continued to create jobs at a torrid pace last month, with President Trump's tariff threats not holding back hiring despite signs emerging trade uncertainty is starting to weigh on business plans in the country, Oxford Economics' Tony Stillo and Michael Davenport say. The pair expect targeted U.S. tariffs and a proportional response from Canada this spring, which will drag on employment growth in affected areas and lift the jobless rate north of 7% later in the year. And recent job growth aside, the economists see ample slack in the economy and below-target inflation allowing for three more quarter-point rate cuts in 2025.(robb.stewart@wsj.com; @RobbMStewart)

1050 ET - The Fannie Mae Home Purchase Sentiment Index rose slightly, by 0.3 points, to 73.4 in January, recovering from its first decline since July. This uptick was driven by increased consumer optimism about homebuying and selling conditions, as well as heightened expectations for rising home prices over the next year. About 43% of respondents now expect home prices to increase, up from 38%, while the net share of people believing home prices will go up jumped 9 percentage points to 20%. However, optimism about declining mortgage rates waned, with the net share expecting lower rates dropping 13 percentage points to 3%. Additionally, 65% of consumers anticipate higher rental prices, up 8 percentage points from last month. Year-over-year, the index is up 2.7 points. Perceptions of good or bad times to buy or sell homes remained unchanged month-over-month. (chris.wack@wsj.com)

1048 ET - The 10-year Treasury climbs back to 4.5% territory as fresh data bolster bets on a hawkish Fed. January jobs report showed a small decline on unemployment and firmer-than-expected earnings, while the University of Michigan confidence index fell unexpected to 67.8, its lowest level since June. Inflation expectations in the survey jumped to 4.3% from 3.3%. Markets are pricing 53% odds that the Fed will cut only once, or not at all, this year, according to CME data. That's up from 42% yesterday. The 10-year is at 4.506% and the two-year at 4.281%. (paulo.trevisani@wsj.com; @ptrevisani)

1038 ET - Job creation in Canada has picked up strongly, with the 3-month average of 70,000 the fastest pace in almost two years, says TD Securities. January's jobs data indicates hiring in the goods-producing sector was the best one-month performance since 2006, when the pandemic era is excluded. Hiring was powered by manufacturing, and the firm acknowledges some of the job gains at factories was likely tied to ramped up production stemming from the risk of hefty US tariffs. TD believes a Bank of Canada rate cut is still in order for March, but the economy would have to materially slow to justify further rate cuts in 2Q. (paul.vieira@wsj.com, @paulvieira)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250207009860:0/)
