---
title: "Sony Stock Hits Record Intraday High After Guidance Upgrade on Game, Music Strength"
date: "2025-02-14 09:41:00"
summary: "By Kosaku NariokaSony Group shares rose sharply to a new record intraday high after the company raised its annual earnings projections owing to the strength of its game and music divisions.Shares were recently 8.1% higher at 3,685 yen on Friday morning in Tokyo after rising as much as 11% earlier..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Kosaku Narioka

Sony Group shares rose sharply to a new record intraday high after the company raised its annual earnings projections owing to the strength of its game and music divisions.

Shares were recently 8.1% higher at 3,685 yen on Friday morning in Tokyo after rising as much as 11% earlier to an all-time high of Y3,774.

Sony said after Thursday's market close that net profit rose 2.7% from a year earlier to Y373.74 billion, equivalent to $2.45 billion, for the three months ended Dec. 31.

For the fiscal year ending March, it projected net profit to climb 11% to Y1.080 trillion, up from its previous forecast of Y980.00 billion, as it expects higher operating profit from its game and music businesses.

Sony also said Thursday that it planned to buy back up to Y50.0 billion of its own shares by May 14.

In its third quarter, operating profit from its game business increased thanks to higher sales of network services and third-party software titles. PlayStation 5 sales rose to 9.5 million units from 8.2 million units a year earlier.

Operating profit from its music business climbed, owing to higher streaming-services revenue, while operating profit from other segments declined.

Jefferies analysts said in a note that they expected profit growth driven by game and music businesses would continue for the next three to four years. Sony starting a new buyback program was also great news, they said.

The Sony stock has been ascending in recent months, driven by growing hopes for the company's success in focusing on its games and other entertainment businesses.

Sony's strong videogame earnings contrast with rival Nintendo's lackluster results. Last week, Nintendo cut its annual projections for earnings and Switch console sales after posting weak nine-month results.

Write to Kosaku Narioka at kosaku.narioka@wsj.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250213018106:0/)
