---
title: "Auto & Transport Roundup: Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-11 17:20:00"
summary: "The latest Market Talks covering the Auto and Transport sector. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires at 4:20 ET, 12:20 ET and 16:50 ET.0859 GMT - The Indian equities selloff has opened up opportunities, HSBC strategists say. They see the software sector as showing improving growth prospects, adding that it..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The latest Market Talks covering the Auto and Transport sector. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires at 4:20 ET, 12:20 ET and 16:50 ET.

0859 GMT - The Indian equities selloff has opened up opportunities, HSBC strategists say. They see the software sector as showing improving growth prospects, adding that it stands to gain from a weak rupee. Lenders can benefit from less restrictive monetary policy, and they also like consumer names that can tap India's rural demand recovery or markets overseas. They favor electronics maker Dixon, which is supported by industry and policy tailwinds. Automaker Maruti Suzuki stands out for its export potential and rural market positioning, while insurance platform PB Fintech can grow at 2X-3X the industry rate thanks to competitive advantages. HSBC also likes Godrej Properties, whose large land bank lets it grow in tough times, and LTIMindtree, which is well-placed for rising IT services demand. HSBC has buy calls on all five. (fabiana.negrinochoa@wsj.com)

0826 GMT - BYD's AI-driven smart-driving technology is positive for companies in its supply chain, Citi analysts say in a research note. The analysts see upside of at least 3%-5% to component maker BYD Electronic's auto-business revenue over 2025 and 2026, the analysts say. However, the recent rally for BYD and its related stocks may have already priced in most of the impact, they add. Citi sees Will Semiconductor, Sunny Optical Technology and BYD Electronic as major beneficiaries from the advanced driver assistance system theme, given the big contribution in revenue and profit from the auto business. (tracy.qu@wsj.com)

0759 GMT - BYD's new driving-assistance system is notable as it brings advanced autonomous-driving technology to the masses with a price tag of under 100,000 yuan, Bernstein analysts write in a note. One key challenge that had weighed on BYD's stock previously was its laggard status in driving-assistance tech, they note. BYD's launch demonstrates the company's ability to catch up with competitors, they say. BYD has outpaced rivals in investing in R&D, and boasts a considerably bigger research team of more than 110,000 engineers, including more than 5,000 dedicated to its advanced driver-assistance system, Bernstein says. The asset management firm maintains a buy rating on the stock with a target price of HK$350.00. Shares are last at HK$328.80. (jiahui.huang@wsj.com; @ivy\_jiahuihuang)

0758 GMT - BYD'S aggressive approach to install its new smart driving system directly challenges Tesla's full self-driving system, which is scheduled for launch in China, DBS says in a research note. On Monday, the Chinese auto maker introduced its advanced driver-assistance system across its vehicle models under its brands Ocean, Dynasty, Denza and Yangwang. BYD's emphasis on affordability and widespread adoption of the smart driving features is "a key differentiator compared to peers," the note says. Given that the mass market accounts for a significant proportion of the auto market, BYD is ahead of its peers in the autonomous driving assistance field, it adds. Shares were last at HK$328.40. (sherry.qin@wsj.com)

0736 GMT - BYD's introduction of its driving assistance system--God's Eye--is marginally positive for the company and could help sustain its high market share, Jefferies analysts write in a note. The Chinese automaker plans to roll out the technology for its models in all price ranges, they note. The move will likely accelerate the adoption rate of assisted driving function in the mass market and lead to a wave of upgrades by existing users, they say. Jefferies maintains its buy rating for the stock. Shares last at HK$330.00. (jiahui.huang@wsj.com; @ivy\_jiahuihuang)

0513 GMT - BYD's latest AI-powered driving technology for Chinese car buyers mark a new breakthrough for the industry, according to Daiwa analysts Evelyn Zhang and Kelvin Lau in a research note. Peers are likely to follow suit, they write, recommending investors to focus on smart car technology supply-chain players after BYD's latest press conference. BYD is setting an example of cost reduction through engineering and technological innovation, the analysts note, adding that the industry is likely to follow BYD in accelerating innovation in engineering to cut costs. The analysts name Horizon Robotics, Huizhou Desay SV Automotive and Bethel Automotive Safety Systems as their preferred names. (tracy.qu@wsj.com)

0347 GMT - BYD is shifting its strategy to meet competition, from price cutting in 2024 to functional upgrades this year, Nomura analysts say in a research note. BYD Monday introduced its smart driving system The God's Eye, which will be available in most of its models. Nomura thinks BYD is the first carmaker in China to bring level 2+ advanced driving assistance functions into below-70,000-yuan market. With China's national level trade-in policy, customers could buy battery-electric vehicles powered with level 2+ driving assistance system for less than 60,000 yuan, they say. BYD's product mix "looks attractive for end-customers and should help the company to deliver further growth ahead in both China and overseas markets," they note. Nomura maintains a buy call on BYD and keeps its target at HK$375. Shares were last at HK$330. (sherry.qin@wsj.com)

0339 GMT - Chinese automakers' small exposure to the U.S. and Mexico mean they should face limited direct impact from proposed U.S. tariffs on China and Mexico, S&P Global Ratings analysts say in a report. However, what may be more meaningful are the indirect effects. If the U.S. follows through on raising tariffs on Chinese imports to as high as 60%, the Chinese economy would be hit hard, hurting automakers and suppliers, S&P says. "The unpredictability of U.S. tariff actions also weakens Chinese firms' ability to plan investments," the rating firm says. The potential 25% tariff on Mexico may drive Chinese carmakers to reconsider plans to build plants there, S&P adds, noting that the "tariff issue is much more about their ability to expand overseas, and not about returns on existing assets." (hoishan.chan@wsj.com)

1934 GMT - Lyft's recent revenue growth could be unsustainable due to shifting labor market conditions and reduced driver incentives, Third Bridge analyst Albie Amankona says in a research note. The ride-hailing app is facing mounting pressure in its core ridesharing business, and it isn't expected to regain significant market share against Uber Technologies anytime soon, Amankona adds. Overall, Lyft's biggest growth opportunity lies in media advertising, or a potential deal with Amazon.com. "An acquisition of Lyft could give Amazon a major boost in the autonomous vehicle race." Owning Lyft would give Amazon more control over pricing and competition, especially against rivals like Waymo. Plus, integrating Lyft could enhance Amazon's existing businesses, like Prime and Whole Foods, creating a new ecosystem for cross-promotion, Amankona adds. Lyft shares rise 5.5%, with Amazon shares up 2%. (sabela.ojea@wsj.com; @sabelaojeaguix)

1549 GMT - Corporate bonds issued by companies within U.S. tech, auto and basic materials sectors have a higher exposure to foreign revenue and are more vulnerable to tariffs implemented by President Trump, BNP Paribas credit strategists say in a note. Issuers within services sectors, however, such as healthcare and cruise companies, have lower foreign sales and are better placed to avoid the negative impacts of tariffs, the strategists say. (miriam.mukuru@wsj.com)

1330 GMT - Maersk's fourth quarter showed strong performance across all divisions, driven by volume growth and high freight rates, but the outlook for container shipping remains uncertain in 2025, AlphaValue analyst Helene Coumes writes. The outlook depends on the reopening of the Red Sea, which will impact supply. Shorter routes that will become available when the route reopens, coupled with new vessel deliveries, should add total capacity of up to 4 million containers, Coumes adds. However, carriers can manage capacity through sailing at slower speeds and gradual scrapping of older vessels, which was low in 2024. On the demand side, Maersk is optimistic, anticipating volume growth of 4%, although higher U.S. tariffs could hit final demand and trade. Maersk shares trade 1.7% higher at 11,475 Danish kroner. (dominic.chopping@wsj.com)

1235 GMT - Porsche's 2025 outlook disappointed, with the carmaker guiding for 10%-12% return on sales, a sharp 350 basis point shortfall to consensus, Citi analysts Harald C Hendrikse and Soumava Banerjee write. The estimate would also be equivalent to an EBIT 1.5 billion euros lower than consensus expectations, they say. "While Porsche highlights 800 million euros of additional costs, this doesn't fully account for the shortfall, suggesting execution gaps." Porsche is a luxury brand and is not generating profitability in line with that, Citi says, adding that it is hard to see why investors would assume Porsche profitability can get close to the 17%-19% range set at the IPO. Citi rates Porsche stock at buy with a 82 euro target price. Shares trade 1.1% higher at 56.16 euros. (dominic.chopping@wsj.com)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250211001961:0/)
