---
title: "U.S. Hiring Gauge Falls for First Time in Four Months — Conference Board"
date: "2025-02-10 23:34:00"
summary: "By Ed FranklHiring in the U.S. slowed in January as workers found jobs harder to find, despite still-high employment levels at the advent of President Trump's second term.The Conference Board's Employment Trends Index, or ETI, declined to 108.35 in January from a downwardly revised 109.23 in December, the first fall..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Ed Frankl

Hiring in the U.S. slowed in January as workers found jobs harder to find, despite still-high employment levels at the advent of President Trump's second term.

The Conference Board's Employment Trends Index, or ETI, declined to 108.35 in January from a downwardly revised 109.23 in December, the first fall in four months, the research group said Monday.

When the ETI index increases, employment is likely to increase as well, while turning points in the index suggest a change in the number of jobs is likely to occur in the short term.

However, the share of consumers who said jobs are hard to get rose for the first time in four months, while measures of economic activity in manufacturing and trade sales, alongside industrial production, also negatively affected the index.

Despite the dip in January, the index has largely moved sideways since late summer, said Mitchell Barnes, an economist at The Conference Board.

"High employment levels, sustained real wage growth and steady labor demand continue to support economic momentum," he added.

The uptick in the ETI comes after the U.S. Labor Department's employment report Friday also showed hiring slowed in January. Employers created 143,000 jobs in January, down from 307,000 in December.

Write to Ed Frankl at edward.frankl@wsj.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250210006891:0-u-s-hiring-gauge-falls-for-first-time-in-four-months-conference-board/)
