---
title: "Dominari Holdings Is Skyrocketing After Eric and Donald Trump Jr. Become Advisers — WSJ"
date: "2025-02-14 03:22:00"
summary: "By David UbertiShares in a small investment firm that leases space in Trump Tower are surging after the company named President Trump's sons as advisers, making it the newest cog in the family's fast-expanding foray into markets.Dominari Holdings stock catapulted more than 50% higher Thursday, pushing its share price more..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By David Uberti

Shares in a small investment firm that leases space in Trump Tower are surging after the company named President Trump's sons as advisers, making it the newest cog in the family's fast-expanding foray into markets.

Dominari Holdings stock catapulted more than 50% higher Thursday, pushing its share price more than 900% higher than a month ago.

Tuesday, Dominari announced that Eric Trump and Donald Trump Jr. joined its advisory board.

The Trump family, famous for slapping its name on hotels and golf courses, has increasingly expanded into finance in recent months, with new ventures spanning publicly traded companies, self-branded cryptocurrencies and exchange-traded funds. Before Dominari, Donald Trump Jr. had taken similar roles at several businesses catering to conservatives and domestic manufacturing, sending their stocks skyrocketing.

Former White House ethics officials warn the broadening financial footprint could give investors who have business before the federal government new ways to bet on the Trump family's commercial interests.

The Trump sons' "guidance is expected to be instrumental as we continue to seek attractive investment opportunities, particularly in the rapidly evolving AI and Data Center sector," Dominari Chief Executive Kyle Wool said in a statement.

"Harnessing this transformative technology is essential to the 'America First' agenda," added Donald Trump Jr., referencing his father's policy approach.

Dominari's links to the Trump family have grown in recent years. The firm holds two leases in Trump Tower totaling more than $62,000 a month, SEC filings show. Dominari also underwrote the initial-public offering of a drone-parts manufacturer that Donald Trump Jr. recently joined as an adviser.

In December, SEC filings indicate that Dominari also named longtime Trump Organization executive Ron Lieberman to its board of directors.

This item is part of a Wall Street Journal live coverage event. The full stream can be found by searching P/WSJL (WSJ Live Coverage).

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250213013433:0/)
