---
title: "UK Market Talk Roundup: Brokers Comments"
date: "2025-02-14 15:50:00"
summary: "Broker comments in the UK today. Compiled by Dow Jones Newswires Markets Desk, markets.eu@dowjones.com0749 GMT - The U.K.'s FTSE 100 index is expected to open slightly higher, up 0.1%, according to IG, while Germany's DAX looks set to open 0.4% lower after hitting record highs recently. The recent rally in..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Broker comments in the UK today. Compiled by Dow Jones Newswires Markets Desk, markets.eu@dowjones.com

0749 GMT - The U.K.'s FTSE 100 index is expected to open slightly higher, up 0.1%, according to IG, while Germany's DAX looks set to open 0.4% lower after hitting record highs recently. The recent rally in stocks has been helped by earnings data, says XTB's Kathleen Brooks in a note. Traders have largely shrugged off tariff threats for now, but the prospect of Trump announcing tariffs against European goods still looms. President Trump ordered federal agencies on Thursday to explore how to adjust U.S. tariffs to match of those of other countries. Brooks says these could take longer to plan. France's CAC 40 is expected to open down 0.1%, according to IG. (jessica.fleetham@wsj.com)

0742 GMT - NatWest reported a solid set of results and upgraded guidance that aligns with consensus, Keefe, Bruyette & Woods says in a research note after the British lender's quarterly print. It guided for a return on tangible equity between 15% and 16% for 2025, while consensus estimates stood at 15.7%. NatWest also guided for total income for the year in the 15.2 billion to 15.7 billion pound range, in line with expectations of 15.5 billion pounds. The lack of share-buyback announcement might be slightly disappointing, analysts write, noting the 15.5 pence-a-share dividend was better than expected. (elena.vardon@wsj.com)

Contact us in London. +44-20-7842-9288   
Markettalk.eu@dowjones.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250214003462:0/)
