---
title: "HanesBrands Announces Fourth-Quarter and Full-Year 2024 Results"
date: "2025-02-13 20:01:00"
summary: "(12:01 GMT) *Hanesbrands 4Q Loss/Shr 4c &gt;HBI(12:01 GMT) *Hanesbrands 4Q Loss $12.9M &gt;HBI(12:01 GMT) *Hanesbrands 4Q Sales $888.5M &gt;HBI(12:01 GMT) Press Release: HanesBrands Announces Fourth-Quarter and Full-Year 2024 ResultsHanesBrands Announces Fourth-Quarter and Full-Year 2024 ResultsReports better-than-expected fourth-quarter and full-year 2024 results. Announced agreement to exit Champion Japan license and moved..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

**(12:01 GMT)** \*Hanesbrands 4Q Loss/Shr 4c >HBI  
**(12:01 GMT)** \*Hanesbrands 4Q Loss $12.9M >HBI  
**(12:01 GMT)** \*Hanesbrands 4Q Sales $888.5M >HBI  
**(12:01 GMT)** Press Release: HanesBrands Announces Fourth-Quarter and Full-Year 2024 Results

HanesBrands Announces Fourth-Quarter and Full-Year 2024 Results

* Reports better-than-expected fourth-quarter and full-year 2024 results.
* Announced agreement to exit Champion Japan license and moved business to discontinued operations in fourth-quarter 2024. Results not directly comparable to prior guidance--see earnings handout for additional information.
* Net sales for the quarter of $888 million increased 4.5% over prior year, or 3.8% on an organic constant currency basis.
* GAAP and Adjusted operating margins for the quarter were 13.5% and 14.2%, respectively, an increase of 240 and 300 basis points, respectively, compared to prior year.
* GAAP earnings per share (EPS) of $0.13 and Adjusted EPS of $0.17.
* Generated full-year cash flow from operations of $264 million and paid down more than $1 billion of debt. Year-end leverage of 3.4 times net debt-to-adjusted EBITDA decreased nearly 2 turns as compared to prior year.
* Provides first-quarter and full-year 2025 guidance, including net sales growth, continued margin expansion, strong EPS growth, and further debt reduction. Company expects to refinance all of its 2026 maturities in first-quarter 2025, subject to market conditions.

WINSTON-SALEM, N.C.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--February 13, 2025--

HanesBrands Inc. , a global leader in iconic apparel brands, today announced results for fourth-quarter and full-year 2024.

"We delivered a strong quarter and full-year with results across all key metrics exceeding our expectations as the benefits of our transformation strategy are clearly working," said Steve Bratspies, CEO. "We enter 2025 as a new Company. We are a more simplified, focused business with a powerful asset base and significant competitive advantages. We believe we are well positioned to build on fourth quarter's momentum and deliver positive sales growth, additional margin expansion, strong cash generation and continued debt reduction, providing us multiple levers to create additional shareholder value in 2025 and beyond."

Fourth-Quarter 2024 Results

Net Sales from continuing operations were $888 million.

* Net sales increased 4.5% compared to the prior year.
* On an organic constant currency basis, net sales increased 3.8% over prior year (Table 2-B).

Gross Profit and Gross Margin increased year-over-year driven by the benefits from accelerated cost savings initiatives and lower input costs.

* The Company continued its consolidation and other optimization actions in its supply chain to lower fixed cost, increase efficiencies, and further improve customer service and in-stocks with lower levels of inventory. The Company expects these actions to drive continued benefits in 2025.
* Gross Profit and Adjusted Gross Profit were $390 million and $392 million, respectively, an increase over prior year of 14% and 15%, respectively.
* Gross Margin and Adjusted Gross Margin increased 380 and 400 basis points, respectively, to 43.9% and 44.1%, respectively.
* Adjusted Gross Profit and Adjusted Gross Margin exclude certain costs related to restructuring and other action-related charges (Table 6-A).

Selling, General and Administrative (SG&A) Expenses, as a percentage of net sales, increased over prior year as planned, strategic increased brand investments drove a 125 basis point increase in SG&A, which was partially offset by benefits from cost savings initiatives and disciplined expense management.

* The Company continued its strategic actions to improve its processes and lower fixed cost and expects the savings from these actions to continue to build over the next several quarters.
* SG&A Expenses were $271 million, or 30.5% of net sales, which represents an increase over prior year of 9% and 140 basis points, respectively.
* Adjusted SG&A Expenses were $266 million, or 29.9% of net sales, which represents an increase of 8% and 100 basis points, respectively.
* Adjusted SG&A Expenses exclude certain costs related to restructuring and other action-related charges (Table 6-A).

Operating Profit and Operating Margin increased over prior year driven by gross margin improvement and SG&A savings initiatives, which supported a 125 basis point increase in brand investments.

* Operating Profit increased 27% to $120 million and Operating Margin increased 240 basis points to 13.5% as compared to prior year.
* Adjusted Operating Profit increased 33% to $126 million and Adjusted Operating Margin increased 300 basis points to 14.2% as compared to prior year.
* Adjusted Operating Profit and Adjusted Operating Margin exclude certain costs related to restructuring and other action-related charges (Table 6-A).

Interest Expense and Other Expenses

* Interest expense of $46 million decreased 13% compared to prior year driven by lower debt balances.
* Other expenses of $18 million included $9 million of an expected write-off of debt issuance costs related to debt pay down in the quarter. Adjusted Other expenses of $9 million increased $2 million over prior year (Table 6-A).

Tax Expense

* Tax expense was $9 million as compared to a tax benefit of $(65) million in the prior year. Effective Tax Rate for fourth-quarter 2024 was 16.6%.
* Adjusted Tax Expense was $9 million as compared to $16 million in fourth-quarter 2023. Adjusted Tax Rate was 12.9% as compared to 46.3% last year (Table 6-A).
* The Company's effective tax rate for 2024 and 2023 is not reflective of the U.S. statutory rate due to valuation allowances against certain net deferred tax assets.

Earnings Per Share

* Income from continuing operations totaled $46 million, or $0.13 per diluted share, in fourth-quarter 2024. This compares to income from continuing operations of $99 million, or $0.28 per diluted share, in fourth-quarter 2023.
* Adjusted Income from continuing operations totaled $61 million, or $0.17 per diluted share. This compares to adjusted income from continuing operations of $18 million, or $0.05 per diluted share, last year (Table 6-A).

See the Note on Adjusted Measures and Reconciliation to GAAP Measures later in this news release for additional discussion and details of actions, which include restructuring and other action-related charges.

Fourth-Quarter 2024 Business Segment Summary

* U.S. net sales increased 3% over prior year driven primarily by innerwear innovation, including Hanes Absolute Socks, Hanes Moves, Hanes Supersoft and Bali Breathe, as well as incremental holiday programming, and new category growth. Operating margin of 23.1% increased approximately 525 basis points over prior year. The increase was driven primarily by the benefits from cost savings initiatives and lower input costs, which helped fund a 30% increase in brand investments to drive consumer demand behind new product innovation in both Men's and Women's.
* International net sales increased 2% on a reported basis, which included a $9 million headwind from unfavorable foreign exchange rates. International sales increased 6% on a constant currency basis compared to prior year as sales grew in Australia, the Americas, and Asia. Operating margin of 12.6% decreased approximately 550 basis points compared to prior year driven primarily by transactional foreign exchange headwinds, business mix, and brand investments, which was partially offset by lower input costs and the benefits from cost savings initiatives.

Cash Flow, Balance Sheet and Liquidity

* Total liquidity position at the end of fourth-quarter 2024 was more than $1.2 billion, consisting of $215 million of cash and equivalents and approximately $1.0 billion of available capacity under the Company's credit facilities.
* Based on the calculation as defined in the Company's senior secured credit facility, the Leverage Ratio at the end of fourth-quarter 2024 was 3.4 times on a net debt-to-adjusted EBITDA basis, which was below its fourth-quarter 2024 covenant of 6.38 times and below prior year's 5.2 times (See Table 6-B). The Company paid down more than $1.0 billion of debt in 2024.
* Inventory at the end of fourth-quarter 2024 of $871 million decreased 9%, or $85 million, year-over-year. The year-over-year decrease was driven predominantly by the benefits of the Company's inventory management capabilities, including SKU discipline and lifecycle management, lower input costs as the Company continued to anniversary the impact from peak inflation, and improving sales trends.
* Cash Flow from Operations for the full-year was $264 million as compared to $562 million last year. Free Cash Flow for the full-year was $226 million as compared to $518 million last year.

Announces Exit of Champion Japan License At the time of closing for the sale of its global Champion business on September 30, 2024, the Company indicated it would continue to operate the Champion Japan business as a licensee for a temporary period of time until it was ultimately transitioned to Authentic Brands Group, in accordance with the terms of the definitive agreement. In the fourth-quarter 2024, the Company notified Authentic Brands Group of its plan to exit the license by the end of 2025 and transition the business ahead of schedule. As a result, the Champion Japan business was reclassified to discontinued operations in the fourth-quarter 2024. For the full-year 2024, the Champion Japan business generated approximately $124 million of net sales and an adjusted operating profit of approximately $12 million.

First-Quarter and Full-Year 2025 Financial Outlook

The Company is providing guidance on tax expense due to the expected fluctuation of its quarterly tax rate, stemming from the deferred tax reserve matter previously disclosed in the fourth quarter of 2022. Importantly, the reserve does not impact cash taxes. Some portion of the reserve may reverse in future periods.

The Company defines organic constant currency net sales as net sales excluding the 'other' segment and the year-over-year impact from foreign exchange rates.

For fiscal year 2025, which ends on January 3, 2026 and includes a 53rd week, the Company currently expects:

* Net sales from continuing operations of approximately $3.47 billion to $3.52 billion, which includes projected headwinds of approximately $60 million from changes in foreign currency exchange rates. At the midpoint, net sales are expected to be relatively consistent with prior year on a reported basis and increase approximately 1% on an organic constant currency basis.
* GAAP operating profit from continuing operations of approximately $420 million to $440 million.
* Adjusted operating profit from continuing operations of approximately $450 million to $465 million, which excludes pretax charges for restructuring and other action-related charges of approximately $25 million to $30 million. The operating profit outlook includes a projected headwind of approximately $8 million from changes in foreign currency exchange rates.
* GAAP and Adjusted Interest expense of approximately $190 million.
* GAAP Other expenses of approximately $49 million. Adjusted Other expenses of approximately $36 million, which excludes approximately $13 million of estimated pretax refinancing charges.
* GAAP and Adjusted Tax expense of approximately $40 million.
* GAAP earnings per share from continuing operations of approximately $0.39 to $0.45.
* Adjusted earnings per share from continuing operations of approximately $0.51 to $0.55.
* Cash flow from operations of approximately $350 million.
* Capital investments of approximately $65 million, consisting of approximately $50 million of capital expenditures and approximately $15 million of cloud computing arrangements.
* Free cash flow of approximately $300 million.
* Fully diluted shares outstanding of approximately 361 million.

For first-quarter 2025, which ends on March 29, 2025, the Company currently expects:

* Net sales from continuing operations of approximately $750 million, which includes projected headwinds of approximately $15 million from changes in foreign currency exchange rates. This represents an approximate 1% increase as compared to prior year on a reported basis and on an organic constant currency basis net sales are expected to be consistent with prior year.
* GAAP operating profit from continuing operations of approximately $55 million.
* Adjusted operating profit from continuing operations of approximately $65 million, which excludes pretax charges for restructuring and other action-related charges of approximately $10 million. The operating profit outlook includes a projected headwind of approximately $1 million from changes in foreign currency exchange rates.
* GAAP and Adjusted Interest expense of approximately $47 million.
* GAAP Other expenses of approximately $21 million. Adjusted Other expenses of approximately $8 million, which excludes approximately $13 million of estimated pretax refinancing charges.
* GAAP and Adjusted Tax expense of approximately $3 million.
* GAAP loss per share from continuing operations of approximately $(0.05) based on 354 million diluted shares outstanding, as calculated under GAAP (no dilution due to GAAP loss from continuing operations)
* Adjusted earnings per share from continuing operations of approximately $0.02 based on fully diluted shares outstanding of approximately 360 million.

HanesBrands has updated its quarterly frequently-asked-questions document, which is available at www.Hanes.com/FAQ.

HanesBrands Announces Leadership Succession

In a separate press release issued today, HanesBrands announced that Steve Bratspies will depart as Chief Executive Officer of the Company at the end of 2025, or upon the appointment of his successor. Bratspies will also step down from the Board of Directors concurrent with the end of his tenure as CEO. The HanesBrands Board has begun a comprehensive search to identify the Company's next CEO as part of the Company's leadership succession planning process and has retained Spencer Stuart, a leading executive search firm, to support its work. Bratspies will stay on in an advisory role once a new CEO is named to support a smooth transition.

Note on Adjusted Measures and Reconciliation to GAAP Measures

To supplement financial results prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, the Company provides quarterly and full-year results concerning certain non--GAAP financial measures, including adjusted EPS from continuing operations, adjusted income (loss) from continuing operations, adjusted income tax expense, adjusted income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes, adjusted operating profit (and margin), adjusted SG&A, adjusted gross profit (and margin), EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA, organic constant currency net sales, adjusted effective tax rate, adjusted interest expense, adjusted other expenses, net debt, leverage ratio and free cash flow.

Adjusted EPS from continuing operations is defined as diluted EPS from continuing operations excluding actions and the tax effect on actions. Adjusted income (loss) from continuing operations is defined as income (loss) from continuing operations excluding actions and the tax effect on actions. Adjusted income tax expense is defined as income tax expense excluding actions. Adjusted income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes is defined as income (loss) from continuing operations before income tax excluding actions. Adjusted operating profit is defined as operating profit excluding actions. Adjusted SG&A is defined as selling, general and administrative expenses excluding actions. Adjusted gross profit is defined as gross profit excluding actions. Adjusted interest expense is defined as interest expense excluding actions. Adjusted other expenses is defined as other expenses excluding actions and adjusted effective tax rate is defined as adjusted tax expense divided by adjusted income (loss) from continuing operations before income tax.

Charges for actions taken in 2024 and 2023, as applicable, include supply chain restructuring and consolidation, corporate asset impairment, headcount actions and related severance charges, professional services, technology charges, gain/loss on sale of business and classification of assets held for sale, loss on extinguishment of debt, gain on final settlement of cross currency swap contracts and the tax effects thereof.

While these costs are not expected to continue for any singular transaction on an ongoing basis, similar types of costs, expenses and charges have occurred in prior periods and may recur in future periods depending upon future business plans and circumstances.

HanesBrands has chosen to present these non--GAAP measures to investors to enable additional analyses of past, present and future operating performance and as a supplemental means of evaluating operations absent the effect of our supply chain restructuring and consolidation and other actions that are deemed to be material stand-alone initiatives apart from the Company's core operations. HanesBrands believes these non-GAAP measures provide management and investors with valuable supplemental information for analyzing the operating performance of the Company's ongoing business during each period presented without giving effect to costs associated with the execution of any of the aforementioned actions taken.

The Company has also chosen to present EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA to investors because it considers these measures to be an important supplemental means of evaluating operating performance. EBITDA is defined as net income (loss) before the impacts of discontinued operations, interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization. Adjusted EBITDA is defined as EBITDA excluding (x) restructuring charges related to our supply chain restructuring and consolidation, and other action-related charges described in more detail in Table 6-A and (y) certain other losses, charges and expenses as defined in the Consolidated Net Total Leverage Ratio under its Fifth Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, dated November 19, 2021, as amended (the "Credit Agreement") described in more detail in Table 6-B. HanesBrands believes that EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA are frequently used by securities analysts, investors and other interested parties in the evaluation of companies in the industry, and management uses EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA for planning purposes in connection with setting its capital allocation strategy. EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA should not, however, be considered as measures of discretionary cash available to invest in the growth of the business.

Net debt is defined as the total of current debt, long-term debt, and borrowings under the accounts receivable securitization facility (excluding long-term debt issuance costs and debt discount and borrowings of unrestricted subsidiaries under the accounts receivable securitization facility) less (x) other debt and cash adjustments and (y) cash and cash equivalents. Leverage ratio is the ratio of net debt to adjusted EBITDA as it is defined in our Credit Agreement.

The Company defines free cash flow as net cash from operating activities less capital expenditures. Management believes that free cash flow, which measures our ability to generate additional cash from our business operations, is an important financial measure for use in evaluating the Company's financial performance. The Company defines organic net sales as net sales excluding the 'other' segment and excluding those derived from businesses acquired or divested within the previous 12 months of the reporting date.

HanesBrands is a global company that reports financial information in U.S. dollars in accordance with GAAP. As a supplement to the Company's reported operating results, HanesBrands also presents constant currency financial information, which is a non-GAAP financial measure that excludes the impact of translating foreign currencies into U.S. dollars. The Company uses constant currency information to provide a framework to assess how the business performed excluding the effects of changes in the rates used to calculate foreign currency translation.

To calculate foreign currency translation on a constant currency basis, operating results for the current-year period for entities reporting in currencies other than the U.S. dollar are translated into U.S. dollars at the average exchange rates in effect during the comparable period of the prior year (rather than the actual exchange rates in effect during the current year period).

HanesBrands believes constant currency information is useful to management and investors to facilitate comparison of operating results and better identify trends in the Company's businesses. The Company defines organic constant currency sales as net sales excluding the 'other' segment and also excluding the impact of translating foreign currencies into U.S. dollars as discussed above.

Non--GAAP financial measures have limitations as analytical tools and should not be considered in isolation or as an alternative to, or substitute for, financial results prepared in accordance with GAAP. Further, the non-GAAP measures presented may be different from non-GAAP measures with similar or identical names presented by other companies.

Reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures are presented in the supplemental financial information included with this news release.

Cautionary Statement Concerning Forward-Looking Statements

This news release contains information that may constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Forward-looking statements include all statements that do not relate solely to historical or current facts, and can generally be identified by the use of words such as "may," "believe," "could," "will, " "expect," "outlook," "potential," "project," "estimate," "future," "intend," "anticipate," "plan," "continue" or similar expressions. However, the absence of these words or similar expressions does not mean that a statement is not forward-looking. All statements regarding our intent, belief and current expectations about our strategic direction, prospects and future results are forward-looking statements and are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those implied or expressed by such statements. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, trends associated with our business; our ability to successfully implement our strategic plans, including our supply chain restructuring and consolidation and other cost savings initiatives; trends associated with our business; the rapidly changing retail environment and the level of consumer demand; the effects of any geopolitical conflicts (including the ongoing Russia-Ukraine conflict and Middle East conflicts) or public health emergencies or severe global health crises, including effects on consumer spending, global supply chains, critical supply routes and the financial markets; our ability to deleverage on the anticipated time frame or at all; any inadequacy, interruption, integration failure or security failure with respect to our information technology; future intangible assets or goodwill impairment due to changes in our business, market condition or other factors, significant fluctuations in foreign exchange rates; legal, regulatory, political and economic risks related to our international operations; our ability to effectively manage our complex international tax structure; our future financial performance; and other risks identified from time to time in our most recent Securities and Exchange Commission reports, including our annual report on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q. Because it is not possible to predict or identify all of the risks, uncertainties and other factors that may affect future results, the above list should not be considered a complete list. Any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date on which such statement is made, and HanesBrands undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law.

HanesBrands

HanesBrands is a global leader in manufacturing basics and Innerwear brands that are synonymous with comfort, quality, and value, and have been trusted by consumers around the world for generations. Among the Company's iconic brands are Hanes, the leading basic apparel brand in the U.S.; Bonds, an Australian staple since 1915 that is setting new standards for design and innovation; Maidenform, America's number one shapewear brand; and Bali, Americas number one national bra brand in the U.S. HanesBrands owns the majority of its worldwide manufacturing facilities and has built a strong reputation for workplace quality and ethical business practices.

```
   
TABLE 1   
                                          HANESBRANDS INC.   
                               Consolidated Statements of Operations   
                               (in thousands, except per share data)   
                                            (Unaudited)   
   
                        Quarters Ended                             Years Ended   
                  --------------------------              ------------------------------   
                  December 28,  December 30,              December 28,    December 30,   
                      2024          2023       % Change        2024            2023        % Change   
                  ------------  ------------  ----------  --------------  --------------  ----------   
Net sales         $888,469      $850,283         4.5%     $3,507,438      $3,639,386        (3.6)%   
Cost of sales      498,198       508,690                   2,147,914       2,347,496   
                   -------       -------                   ---------       ---------   
   Gross profit    390,271       341,593        14.3%      1,359,524       1,291,890         5.2%   
      As a % of   
       net   
       sales          43.9%         40.2%                       38.8%           35.5%   
Selling, general   
 and   
 administrative   
 expenses          270,571       247,154         9.5%      1,173,576       1,025,612        14.4%   
      As a % of   
       net   
       sales          30.5%         29.1%                       33.5%           28.2%   
                   -------       -------                   ---------       ---------   
   Operating   
    profit         119,700        94,439        26.7%        185,948         266,278       (30.2)%   
      As a % of   
       net   
       sales          13.5%         11.1%                        5.3%            7.3%   
Other expenses      18,420         7,095                      47,441          37,761   
Interest   
 expense, net       46,497        53,685                     195,901         214,187   
                   -------       -------                   ---------       ---------   
   Income (loss)   
    from   
    continuing   
    operations   
    before   
    income   
    taxes           54,783        33,659                     (57,394)         14,330   
Income tax   
 expense   
 (benefit)           9,115       (65,104)                     40,601         (14,818)   
                   -------       -------                   ---------       ---------   
   Income (loss)   
    from   
    continuing   
    operations      45,668        98,763       (53.8)%       (97,995)         29,148      (436.2)%   
Loss from   
 discontinued   
 operations, net   
 of tax            (58,548)      (20,822)                   (222,436)        (46,874)   
                   -------       -------                   ---------       ---------   
   Net income   
    (loss)        $(12,880)     $ 77,941                  $ (320,431)     $  (17,726)   
                   =======       =======                   =========       =========   
   
Earnings (loss)   
per share -   
basic:   
   Continuing   
    operations    $   0.13      $   0.28                  $    (0.28)     $     0.08   
   Discontinued   
    operations       (0.17)        (0.06)                      (0.63)          (0.13)   
                   -------       -------                   ---------       ---------   
   Net income   
    (loss)        $  (0.04)     $   0.22                  $    (0.91)     $    (0.05)   
                   =======       =======                   =========       =========   
   
Earnings (loss)   
per share -   
diluted:   
   Continuing   
    operations    $   0.13      $   0.28                  $    (0.28)     $     0.08   
   Discontinued   
    operations       (0.16)        (0.06)                      (0.63)          (0.13)   
                   -------       -------                   ---------       ---------   
   Net income   
    (loss)        $  (0.04)     $   0.22                  $    (0.91)     $    (0.05)   
                   =======       =======                   =========       =========   
   
Weighted average   
shares   
outstanding:   
   Basic           352,881       350,765                     352,139         350,592   
   Diluted         356,851       351,566                     352,139         351,057   
   
   
TABLE 2-A   
                               HANESBRANDS INC.   
                      Supplemental Financial Information   
                          Impact of Foreign Currency   
                    (in thousands, except per share data)   
                                 (Unaudited)   
   
The following tables present a reconciliation of reported results on a   
constant currency basis for the quarter and year ended December 28, 2024 and a   
comparison to prior year:   
   
   
                      Quarter Ended December 28, 2024   
                   -------------------------------------   
                                                           Quarter   
                                Impact from                 Ended     % Change,    % Change,   
                      As          Foreign      Constant   December       As         Constant   
                   Reported     Currency(1)     Currency  30, 2023    Reported      Currency   
                   ---------  ---------------  ---------  ---------  -----------  -----------   
As reported under   
GAAP:   
   Net sales       $ 888,469   $   (9,241)     $ 897,710  $850,283      4.5%         5.6%   
   Gross profit      390,271       (3,078)       393,349   341,593     14.3         15.2   
   Operating   
    profit           119,700         (558)       120,258    94,439     26.7         27.3   
   Diluted   
    earnings   
    (loss) per   
    share from   
    continuing   
    operations(3)  $    0.13   $     0.00      $    0.13  $  (0.28)   146.4%       146.4%   
   
As adjusted:(2)   
   Net sales       $ 888,469   $   (9,241)     $ 897,710  $850,283      4.5%         5.6%   
   Gross profit      391,509       (3,078)       394,587   340,465     15.0         15.9   
   Operating   
    profit           125,975         (558)       126,533    94,824     32.9         33.4   
   Diluted   
    earnings per   
    share from   
    continuing   
    operations(3)  $    0.17   $     0.00      $    0.17  $   0.05    240.0%       240.0%   
   
   
(1)    Effect of the change in foreign currency exchange rates year-over-year.   
       Calculated by applying prior period exchange rates to the current year   
       financial results.   
(2)    Results for the quarters ended December 28, 2024 and December 30, 2023   
       reflect adjustments for restructuring and other action-related charges.   
       See "Reconciliation of Select GAAP Measures to Non-GAAP Measures" in   
       Table 6-A.   
(3)    Amounts may not be additive due to rounding.   
   
   
                           Year Ended December 28, 2024   
                      ---------------------------------------   
                                    Impact from                Year Ended    % Change,    % Change,   
                                      Foreign      Constant     December        As         Constant   
                      As Reported   Currency(1)     Currency    30, 2023     Reported      Currency   
                      -----------  -------------  -----------  -----------  -----------  -----------   
As reported under   
GAAP:   
   Net sales          $3,507,438    $   (39,532)  $3,546,970   $3,639,386     (3.6)%        (2.5)%   
   Gross profit        1,359,524        (19,858)   1,379,382    1,291,890      5.2           6.8   
   Operating profit      185,948         (7,077)     193,025      266,278    (30.2)        (27.5)   
      Diluted   
       earnings   
       (loss) per   
       share from   
       continuing   
       operations(3)  $    (0.28)   $     (0.01)  $    (0.27)  $     0.08   (450.0)%      (437.5)%   
   
As adjusted:(2)   
   Net sales          $3,507,438    $   (39,532)  $3,546,970   $3,639,386     (3.6)%        (2.5)%   
   Gross profit        1,450,703        (19,858)   1,470,561    1,294,043     12.1          13.6   
   Operating profit      415,171         (7,077)     422,248      289,077     43.6          46.1   
      Diluted   
       earnings   
       (loss) per   
       share from   
       continuing   
       operations   
       (3)            $     0.40    $     (0.01)  $     0.41   $    (0.07)  (671.4)%      (685.7)%   
   
   
(1)    Effect of the change in foreign currency exchange rates year-over-year.   
       Calculated by applying prior period exchange rates to the current year   
       financial results.   
(2)    Results for the years ended December 28, 2024 and December 30, 2023   
       reflect adjustments for restructuring and other action-related charges.   
       See "Reconciliation of Select GAAP Measures to Non-GAAP Measures" in   
       Table 6-A.   
(3)    Amounts may not be additive due to rounding.   
   
   
TABLE 2-B   
                               HANESBRANDS INC.   
                      Supplemental Financial Information   
                          Organic Constant Currency   
                    (in thousands, except per share data)   
                                 (Unaudited)   
   
The following tables present a reconciliation of reported results on an   
organic constant currency basis for the quarter and year ended December 28,   
2024 and a comparison to prior year:   
   
   
               Quarter Ended December 28, 2024         Quarter Ended December 30, 2023   
        ---------------------------------------------  --------------------------------   
                                                                                                       % Change,   
                    Impact from      Less    Organic                 Less                 % Change,     Organic   
           As         Foreign       Other    Constant     As         Other                    As        Constant   
        Reported    Currency(1)    Sales(2)  Currency   Reported   Sales(2)    Organic     Reported     Currency   
        --------  ---------------  --------  --------  ---------  ----------  ---------  -----------  -----------   
Net   
 sales  $888,469   $   (9,241)     $ 16,783  $880,927  $ 850,283   $   1,787  $ 848,496   4.5%         3.8%   
   
   
(1)    Effect of the change in foreign currency exchange rates year-over-year.   
       Calculated by applying prior period exchange rates to the current year   
       financial results.   
(2)    Other sales consist of the Company's U.S. Sheer Hosiery business (prior   
       to the September 29, 2023 sale) as well as certain sales from the   
       Company's supply chain and short term support/transition services   
       agreements for disposed businesses.   
   
   
                 Year Ended December 28, 2024              Year Ended December 30, 2023   
        -----------------------------------------------  --------------------------------   
                                                                                                         % Change,   
                     Impact from     Less     Organic                  Less                 % Change,     Organic   
            As         Foreign      Other     Constant       As       Other                     As        Constant   
         Reported    Currency(1)   Sales(2)   Currency    Reported   Sales(2)   Organic      Reported     Currency   
        ----------  -------------  --------  ----------  ----------  --------  ----------  -----------  -----------   
Net   
 sales  $3,507,438   $   (39,532)  $ 17,868  $3,529,102  $3,639,386  $ 69,663  $3,569,723   (3.6)%       (1.1)%   
   
   
(1)    Effect of the change in foreign currency exchange rates year-over-year.   
       Calculated by applying prior period exchange rates to the current year   
       financial results.   
(2)    Other sales consist of the Company's U.S. Sheer Hosiery business (prior   
       to the September 29, 2023 sale) as well as certain sales from the   
       Company's supply chain and short term support/transition services   
       agreements for disposed businesses.   
   
   
TABLE 3   
                                     HANESBRANDS INC.   
                            Supplemental Financial Information   
                                   By Business Segment   
                                      (in thousands)   
                                       (Unaudited)   
   
                      Quarters Ended                        Years Ended   
                   --------------------               ------------------------   
                   December   December                 December     December   
                   28, 2024   30, 2023    % Change     28, 2024     30, 2023     % Change   
                   ---------  ---------  -----------  -----------  -----------  ----------   
Segment net   
sales:   
   U.S.            $618,747   $600,733       3.0%     $2,581,137   $2,636,656     (2.1)%   
   International    252,939    247,763       2.1         908,433      933,067     (2.6)   
                    -------    -------   -------       ---------    ---------   ------   
      Total   
       segment   
       net sales    871,686    848,496       2.7       3,489,570    3,569,723     (2.2)   
   Other net   
    sales            16,783      1,787     839.2          17,868       69,663    (74.4)   
                    -------    -------   -------       ---------    ---------   ------   
      Total net   
       sales       $888,469   $850,283       4.5%     $3,507,438   $3,639,386     (3.6)%   
                    =======    =======   =======       =========    =========   ======   
   
Segment operating   
profit:   
   U.S.            $142,738   $106,933      33.5%     $  548,852   $  404,273     35.8%   
   International     31,764     44,699     (28.9)        106,506      108,833     (2.1)   
                    -------    -------   -------       ---------    ---------   ------   
      Total   
       segment   
       operating   
       profit       174,502    151,632      15.1         655,358      513,106     27.7   
Other profit   
 (loss)               3,988     (1,319)   (402.4)          2,550       (1,189)  (314.5)   
General corporate   
 expenses           (48,644)   (50,781)     (4.2)       (225,997)    (204,019)    10.8   
Amortization of   
 intangibles         (3,871)    (4,708)    (17.8)        (16,740)     (18,821)   (11.1)   
                    -------    -------   -------       ---------    ---------   ------   
Total operating   
 profit before   
 restructuring   
 and other   
 action-related   
 charges            125,975     94,824      32.9         415,171      289,077     43.6   
Restructuring and   
 other   
 action-related   
 charges             (6,275)      (385)  1,529.9        (229,223)     (22,799)   905.4   
                    -------    -------   -------       ---------    ---------   ------   
      Total   
       operating   
       profit      $119,700   $ 94,439      26.7%     $  185,948   $  266,278    (30.2)%   
                    =======    =======   =======       =========    =========   ======   
   
   
                       Quarters Ended                       Years Ended   
                   ----------------------              ----------------------   
                                             Basis                               Basis   
                    December    December     Points     December    December     Points   
                    28, 2024    30, 2023     Change     28, 2024    30, 2023     Change   
                   ----------  ----------  ----------  ----------  ----------  ----------   
Segment operating   
margin:   
   U.S.            23.1%        17.8%        527       21.3%       15.3%         593   
   International   12.6         18.0        (548)      11.7        11.7            6   
                   ----  ----  -----  ---  -----       ----  ----  ----  ----  -----  ---   
      Total   
       segment   
       operating   
       profit      20.0         17.9         215       18.8        14.4          441   
Other profit   
 (loss)            23.8        (73.8)      9,757       14.3        (1.7)       1,598   
General corporate   
 expenses          (5.5)        (6.0)         50       (6.4)       (5.6)         (84)   
Amortization of   
 intangibles       (0.4)        (0.6)         12       (0.5)       (0.5)           4   
                   ----   ---  -----       -----  ---  ----   ---  ----   ---  -----  ---   
Total operating   
 margin before   
 restructuring   
 and other   
 action-related   
 charges           14.2         11.2         303       11.8         7.9          389   
Restructuring and   
 other   
 action-related   
 charges           (0.7)          --         (66)      (6.5)       (0.6)        (591)   
                   ----   ---  -----  ---  -----       ----   ---  ----   ---  -----   
      Total   
       operating   
       margin      13.5%        11.1%        237        5.3%        7.3%        (202)   
                   ====   ===  =====       =====  ===  ====   ===  ====   ===  =====   
   
   
TABLE 4   
                             HANESBRANDS INC.   
                  Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets   
                              (in thousands)   
                               (Unaudited)   
   
                                         December 28,      December 30,   
                                              2024              2023   
                                        ---------------  -----------------   
Assets   
Cash and cash equivalents                $     214,854    $     185,217   
Trade accounts receivable, net                 376,195          423,682   
Inventories                                    871,044          956,430   
Other current assets                           152,853          113,281   
Current assets held for sale                   100,430          597,605   
                                            ----------       ----------   
      Total current assets                   1,715,376        2,276,215   
Property, net                                  188,259          353,035   
Right-of-use assets                            222,759          271,751   
Trademarks and other identifiable   
 intangibles, net                              886,264          959,851   
Goodwill                                       638,370          659,361   
Deferred tax assets                             13,591           18,176   
Other noncurrent assets                        116,729          135,247   
Noncurrent assets held for sale                 59,593          966,678   
                                            ----------       ----------   
      Total assets                       $   3,840,941    $   5,640,314   
                                            ==========       ==========   
   
Liabilities   
Accounts payable                         $     593,377    $     538,782   
Accrued liabilities                            452,940          410,152   
Lease liabilities                               64,233           64,547   
Accounts Receivable Securitization   
 Facility                                       95,000            6,000   
Current portion of long-term debt                   --           59,000   
Current liabilities held for sale               42,990          312,087   
                                            ----------       ----------   
      Total current liabilities              1,248,540        1,390,568   
Long-term debt                               2,186,057        3,235,640   
Lease liabilities - noncurrent                 206,124          235,453   
Pension and postretirement benefits             66,171           98,170   
Other noncurrent liabilities                    67,452          121,150   
Noncurrent liabilities held for sale            32,587          139,980   
                                            ----------       ----------   
      Total liabilities                      3,806,931        5,220,961   
                                            ----------       ----------   
   
Stockholders' equity   
Preferred stock                                     --               --   
Common stock                                     3,525            3,501   
Additional paid-in capital                     373,213          353,367   
Retained earnings                              234,494          554,796   
Accumulated other comprehensive loss          (577,222)        (492,311)   
                                            ----------       ----------   
      Total stockholders' equity                34,010          419,353   
                                            ----------       ----------   
      Total liabilities and   
       stockholders' equity              $   3,840,941    $   5,640,314   
                                            ==========       ==========   
   
   
TABLE 5   
                                HANESBRANDS INC.   
               Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows(1)   
                                 (in thousands)   
                                  (Unaudited)   
   
                               Quarters Ended               Years Ended   
                          ------------------------  ----------------------------   
                          December 28,   December   December 28,  December 30,   
                              2024       30, 2023       2024           2023   
                          ------------  ----------  ------------  --------------   
Operating activities:   
   Net income (loss)      $   (12,880)  $  77,941   $  (320,431)  $   (17,726)   
   Adjustments to   
   reconcile net income   
   (loss) to net cash   
   from operating   
   activities:   
      Depreciation             11,355      19,022        69,861        75,268   
      Amortization of   
       acquisition   
       intangibles              1,893       4,091        12,020        16,569   
      Other amortization        1,979       3,344        10,174        13,200   
      Impairment of   
      long-lived assets   
      and goodwill                 --          --        76,746            --   
      Inventory   
       write-down   
       charges, net of   
       recoveries               6,220          --       119,748            --   
      Loss on   
       extinguishment of   
       debt                     9,412          --         9,412         8,466   
      Loss on sale of   
       businesses and   
       classification of   
       assets held for   
       sale                    63,831          --       114,161         3,641   
      Amortization of   
       debt issuance   
       costs and debt   
       discount                 4,887       2,362        12,535         8,939   
      Stock compensation   
       expense                  4,711       4,527        25,845        20,546   
      Deferred taxes          (11,895)    (85,595)      (11,974)      (84,745)   
      Other                    (3,317)      8,495           909           610   
      Changes in assets   
      and liabilities:   
         Accounts   
          receivable           84,821     162,080        (1,785)      174,249   
         Inventories           59,095     155,390       114,931       599,982   
         Other assets          30,441     103,505        17,555        82,672   
         Accounts   
          payable             (67,408)    (69,191)       17,649      (194,602)   
         Accrued pension   
          and   
          postretirement   
          benefits             (2,045)      2,618        (4,662)        6,799   
         Accrued   
          liabilities   
          and other          (113,669)   (114,184)        1,549      (152,119)   
                           ----------    --------    ----------    ----------   
   Net cash from   
    operating   
    activities                 67,431     274,405       264,243       561,749   
Investing activities:   
   Capital expenditures        (5,710)     (8,266)      (37,889)      (44,056)   
   Proceeds from sales   
    of assets                      26         159        12,362           331   
   Proceeds from   
    (payments for)   
    disposition of   
    businesses                850,560          --       838,560         1,300   
   Other                           --           1            --        18,942   
                           ----------    --------    ----------    ----------   
      Net cash from   
       investing   
       activities             844,876      (8,106)      813,033       (23,483)   
Financing Activities:   
   Borrowings on Term   
    Loan Facilities                --          --            --       891,000   
   Repayments on Term   
    Loan Facilities        (1,097,983)    (14,750)   (1,127,483)      (44,250)   
   Borrowings on   
    Accounts Receivable   
    Securitization   
    Facility                  220,000     541,500     1,831,000     2,270,000   
   Repayments on   
    Accounts Receivable   
    Securitization   
    Facility                 (125,000)   (736,000)   (1,742,000)   (2,473,500)   
   Borrowings on   
    Revolving Loan   
    Facilities                     --     306,500       613,500     1,923,000   
   Repayments on   
    Revolving Loan   
    Facilities                     --    (367,000)     (613,500)   (2,275,500)   
   Borrowings on Senior   
    Notes                          --          --            --       600,000   
   Repayments on Senior   
    Notes                          --          --            --    (1,436,884)   
   Payments to amend and   
    refinance credit   
    facilities                    (71)     (2,517)         (783)      (31,020)   
   Other                       (3,505)        (37)       (7,454)       (2,921)   
                           ----------    --------    ----------    ----------   
      Net cash from   
       financing   
       activities          (1,006,559)   (272,304)   (1,046,720)     (580,075)   
                           ----------    --------    ----------    ----------   
Effect of changes in   
 foreign exchange rates   
 on cash                      (17,305)     20,415       (20,703)        8,897   
                           ----------    --------    ----------    ----------   
   Change in cash and   
    cash equivalents         (111,557)     14,410         9,853       (32,912)   
Cash and cash   
 equivalents at   
 beginning of period          326,911     191,091       205,501       238,413   
                           ----------    --------    ----------    ----------   
Cash and cash   
 equivalents at end of   
 period                   $   215,354   $ 205,501   $   215,354   $   205,501   
                           ==========    ========    ==========    ==========   
   
Balances included in the   
Consolidated Balance   
Sheets:   
Cash and cash   
 equivalents              $   214,854   $ 185,217   $   214,854   $   185,217   
Cash and cash   
 equivalents included in   
 current assets held for   
 sale                     $       500   $  20,284   $       500   $    20,284   
                           ----------    --------    ----------    ----------   
Cash and cash   
 equivalents at end of   
 year                     $   215,354   $ 205,501   $   215,354   $   205,501   
                           ==========    ========    ==========    ==========   
   
   
(1)    The cash flows related to discontinued operations have not been   
       segregated and remain included in the major classes of assets and   
       liabilities. Accordingly, the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows   
       include the results of continuing and discontinued operations.   
   
   
TABLE 6-A   
                               HANESBRANDS INC.   
                      Supplemental Financial Information   
         Reconciliation of Select GAAP Measures to Non-GAAP Measures   
                    (in thousands, except per share data)   
                                 (Unaudited)   
   
The following tables present a reconciliation of results from continuing   
operations as reported under GAAP to the results from continuing operations as   
adjusted for the quarter and year ended December 28, 2024 and a comparison to   
prior year. The results of continuing operations exclude the results of the   
global Champion business, the Champion Japan business and the U.S.-based   
outlet store business, which have been reclassified to discontinued operations   
for all periods presented. The Company has chosen to present the following   
non-GAAP measures to investors to enable additional analyses of past, present   
and future operating performance and as a supplemental means of evaluating   
continuing operations absent the effect of restructuring and other actions   
that are deemed to be material stand-alone initiatives apart from the   
Company's core operations. While these costs are not expected to continue for   
any singular transaction on an ongoing basis, similar types of costs, expenses   
and charges have occurred in prior periods and may recur in future periods   
depending upon future business plans and circumstances. Restructuring and   
other action-related charges in 2024 and 2023 include the following:   
   
   
Supply chain restructuring and           In 2024, represents charges as a   
consolidation                            result of the sale of the global   
                                         Champion business, which was   
                                         completed in the fourth quarter of   
                                         2024 on September 30, 2024, and the   
                                         completed exit of the U.S.-based   
                                         outlet store business in July 2024   
                                         related to significant restructuring   
                                         and consolidation efforts within the   
                                         Company's supply chain network, both   
                                         manufacturing and distribution, to   
                                         align the Company's network to its   
                                         continuing operations to drive   
                                         stronger operating performance and   
                                         margin expansion. In 2023, represents   
                                         charges related to supply chain   
                                         segmentation to restructure and   
                                         position the Company's distribution   
                                         and manufacturing network to align   
                                         with its demand trends, simplify   
                                         operations and improve efficiencies.   
Corporate asset impairment charges       Primarily represents charges related   
                                         to a contract terminated in the   
                                         second quarter of 2024 and impairment   
                                         of the Company's headquarters   
                                         location that was classified as held   
                                         for sale in the second quarter of   
                                         2024.   
Headcount actions and related            Represents charges related to   
severance                                operating model initiatives primarily   
                                         headcount actions and related   
                                         severance charges and adjustments   
                                         related to restructuring activities.   
Professional services                    Represents professional fees,   
                                         primarily including consulting and   
                                         advisory services, related to   
                                         restructuring activities.   
Technology                               Represents technology charges related   
                                         to the implementation of the   
                                         Company's technology modernization   
                                         initiative which includes a global   
                                         enterprise resource planning   
                                         platform.   
Gain/loss on sale of business and        Represents the gain/loss associated   
classification of assets held for        with the sale of the Company's U.S.   
sale                                     Sheer Hosiery business and   
                                         adjustments to the related valuation   
                                         allowance prior to the sale on   
                                         September 29, 2023, primarily from   
                                         the changes in carrying value due to   
                                         changes in working capital.   
Loss on extinguishment of debt           Represents charges for the write-off   
                                         of unamortized debt issuance costs   
                                         related to the requirement to pay   
                                         down a portion of the Company's   
                                         outstanding term debt under the   
                                         Senior Secured Credit Facility with   
                                         the net proceeds from the sale of the   
                                         global Champion business in the   
                                         fourth quarter of 2024 and charges   
                                         related to the redemption of the   
                                         Company's 4.625% Senior Notes and   
                                         3.5% Senior Notes in the first   
                                         quarter of 2023.   
Gain on final settlement of cross        Primarily represents the remaining   
currency swap contracts                  gain related to cross-currency swap   
                                         contracts previously designated as   
                                         cash flow hedges in accumulated other   
                                         comprehensive loss which was released   
                                         into earnings as the Company unwound   
                                         the cross-currency swap contracts in   
                                         connection with the redemption of the   
                                         3.5% Senior Notes at the time of   
                                         settlement in the first quarter of   
                                         2023.   
Discrete tax benefit                     In 2023, represents an adjustment to   
                                         non-cash reserves established at   
                                         December 31, 2022 related to deferred   
                                         taxes established for Swiss statutory   
                                         impairments, which are not indicative   
                                         of the Company's core business   
                                         operations. In 2022, represents   
                                         non-cash reserves established   
                                         relating to deferred taxes.   
Tax effect on actions                    Represents the applicable effective   
                                         tax rate on the restructuring and   
                                         other action-related charges based on   
                                         the jurisdiction of where the charges   
                                         were incurred.   
   
   
                         Quarters Ended                 Years Ended   
                   --------------------------  ------------------------------   
                   December 28,  December 30,  December 28,    December 30,   
                       2024          2023           2024            2023   
                   ------------  ------------  --------------  --------------   
Gross profit, as   
 reported under   
 GAAP              $390,271      $341,593      $1,359,524      $1,291,890   
         As a %   
          of net   
          sales        43.9%         40.2%           38.8%           35.5%   
Restructuring and   
other   
action-related   
charges:   
   Supply chain   
    restructuring   
    and   
    consolidation     1,238        (1,284)         80,748           1,128   
   Corporate   
   asset   
   impairment   
   charges               --            --          10,395              --   
   Headcount   
    actions and   
    related   
    severance            --           156              36           1,025   
                    -------       -------       ---------       ---------   
      Gross   
       profit, as   
       adjusted    $391,509      $340,465      $1,450,703      $1,294,043   
                    =======       =======       =========       =========   
         As a %   
          of net   
          sales        44.1%         40.0%           41.4%           35.6%   
   
   
                             Quarters Ended                 Years Ended   
                       --------------------------  ------------------------------   
                       December 28,  December 30,  December 28,    December 30,   
                           2024          2023           2024            2023   
                       ------------  ------------  --------------  --------------   
Selling, general and   
 administrative   
 expenses, as   
 reported under GAAP   $270,571      $247,154      $1,173,576      $1,025,612   
         As a % of   
          net sales        30.5%         29.1%           33.5%           28.2%   
Restructuring and   
other action-related   
charges:   
   Supply chain   
    restructuring and   
    consolidation          (667)           --         (90,781)             --   
   Corporate asset   
    impairment   
    charges                  --            --          (9,712)             --   
   Headcount actions   
    and related   
    severance               860          (573)        (16,957)         (4,124)   
   Professional   
    services             (4,611)           (6)        (16,488)         (3,819)   
   Technology            (1,032)         (657)         (1,859)         (8,347)   
   (Loss) gain on   
    sale of business   
    and   
    classification of   
    assets held for   
    sale                     --            --              --          (3,641)   
   Other                    413          (277)         (2,247)           (715)   
                        -------       -------       ---------       ---------   
      Selling,   
       general and   
       administrative   
       expenses, as   
       adjusted        $265,534      $245,641      $1,035,532      $1,004,966   
                        =======       =======       =========       =========   
         As a % of   
          net sales        29.9%         28.9%           29.5%           27.6%   
   
   
                         Quarters Ended               Years Ended   
                    -------------------------  --------------------------   
                    December 28,   December    December 28,  December 30,   
                        2024       30, 2023        2024          2023   
                    ------------  -----------  ------------  ------------   
Operating profit,   
 as reported under   
 GAAP               $119,700      $94,439      $185,948      $266,278   
         As a % of   
          net   
          sales         13.5%        11.1%          5.3%          7.3%   
Restructuring and   
other   
action-related   
charges:   
   Supply chain   
    restructuring   
    and   
    consolidation      1,905       (1,284)      171,529         1,128   
   Corporate asset   
   impairment   
   charges                --           --        20,107            --   
   Headcount   
    actions and   
    related   
    severance           (860)         729        16,993         5,149   
   Professional   
    services           4,611            6        16,488         3,819   
   Technology          1,032          657         1,859         8,347   
   Loss (gain) on   
    sale of   
    business and   
    classification   
    of assets held   
    for sale              --           --            --         3,641   
   Other                (413)         277         2,247           715   
                     -------       ------       -------       -------   
      Operating   
       profit, as   
       adjusted     $125,975      $94,824      $415,171      $289,077   
                     =======       ======       =======       =======   
         As a % of   
          net   
          sales         14.2%        11.2%         11.8%          7.9%   
   
   
                      Quarters Ended          Years Ended   
                    -------------------  ----------------------   
                    December   
                      28,     December   December    December   
                      2024    30, 2023   28, 2024    30, 2023   
                    --------  ---------  ---------  -----------   
Interest expense,   
 net and other   
 expenses, as   
 reported under   
 GAAP               $64,917   $  60,780  $243,342   $251,948   
Restructuring and   
other   
action-related   
charges:   
   Loss on   
    extinguishment   
    of debt          (9,412)         --    (9,412)    (8,466)   
   Gain on final   
    settlement of   
    cross currency   
    swaps                --          --        --      1,370   
                     ------    --------   -------    -------   
      Interest   
       expense,   
       net and   
       other   
       expenses,   
       as   
       adjusted     $55,505   $  60,780  $233,930   $244,852   
                     ======    ========   =======    =======   
   
   
                      Quarters Ended         Years Ended   
                    ------------------  ---------------------   
                    December  December   
                      28,       30,     December    December   
                      2024      2023    28, 2024    30, 2023   
                    --------  --------  ---------  ----------   
Income (loss) from   
 continuing   
 operations before   
 income taxes, as   
 reported under   
 GAAP               $54,783   $33,659   $(57,394)  $14,330   
Restructuring and   
other   
action-related   
charges:   
   Supply chain   
    restructuring   
    and   
    consolidation     1,905    (1,284)   171,529     1,128   
   Corporate asset   
   impairment   
   charges               --        --     20,107        --   
   Headcount   
    actions and   
    related   
    severance          (860)      729     16,993     5,149   
   Professional   
    services          4,611         6     16,488     3,819   
   Technology         1,032       657      1,859     8,347   
   Loss (gain) on   
    sale of   
    business and   
    classification   
    of assets held   
    for sale             --        --         --     3,641   
   Other               (413)      277      2,247       715   
   Loss on   
    extinguishment   
    of debt           9,412        --      9,412     8,466   
   Gain on final   
    settlement of   
    cross currency   
    swaps                --        --         --    (1,370)   
                     ------    ------    -------    ------   
      Income from   
       continuing   
       operations   
       before   
       income   
       taxes, as   
       adjusted     $70,470   $34,044   $181,241   $44,225   
                     ======    ======    =======    ======   
   
   
                    Quarters Ended            Years Ended   
                 --------------------  -------------------------   
                 December   December   December   December 30,   
                 28, 2024   30, 2023   28, 2024        2023   
                 ---------  ---------  ---------  --------------   
Income tax   
 expense   
 (benefit), as   
 reported under   
 GAAP            $   9,115  $(65,104)  $  40,601   $  (14,818)   
Restructuring   
and other   
action-related   
charges:   
   Discrete tax   
    (expense)   
    benefit             --    80,859          --       85,122   
   Tax effect   
   on actions           --        --          --           --   
                  --------   -------    --------      -------   
      Income   
       tax   
       expense,   
       as   
       adjusted  $   9,115  $ 15,755   $  40,601   $   70,304   
                  ========   =======    ========      =======   
   
   
                      Quarters Ended          Years Ended   
                    -------------------  ----------------------   
                    December   
                      28,     December   December    December   
                      2024    30, 2023   28, 2024    30, 2023   
                    --------  ---------  ---------  -----------   
Income (loss) from   
 continuing   
 operations, as   
 reported under   
 GAAP               $45,668   $ 98,763   $(97,995)  $ 29,148   
Restructuring and   
other   
action-related   
charges:   
   Supply chain   
    restructuring   
    and   
    consolidation     1,905     (1,284)   171,529      1,128   
   Corporate asset   
   impairment   
   charges               --         --     20,107         --   
   Headcount   
    actions and   
    related   
    severance          (860)       729     16,993      5,149   
   Professional   
    services          4,611          6     16,488      3,819   
   Technology         1,032        657      1,859      8,347   
   Loss (gain) on   
    sale of   
    business and   
    classification   
    of assets held   
    for sale             --         --         --      3,641   
   Other               (413)       277      2,247        715   
   Loss on   
    extinguishment   
    of debt           9,412         --      9,412      8,466   
   Gain on final   
    settlement of   
    cross currency   
    swaps                --         --         --     (1,370)   
   Discrete tax   
    expense   
    (benefit)            --    (80,859)        --    (85,122)   
   Tax effect on   
   actions               --         --         --         --   
                     ------    -------    -------    -------   
      Income   
       (loss) from   
       continuing   
       operations,   
       as   
       adjusted     $61,355   $ 18,289   $140,640   $(26,079)   
                     ======    =======    =======    =======   
   
   
                       Quarters Ended            Years Ended   
                    ---------------------  ------------------------   
                    December    December    December   December 30,   
                    28, 2024    30, 2023    28, 2024       2023   
                    ---------  ----------  ----------  ------------   
Diluted earnings   
 (loss) per share   
 from continuing   
 operations, as   
 reported under   
 GAAP(1)            $    0.13   $   0.28    $  (0.28)   $   0.08   
Restructuring and   
other   
action-related   
charges:   
   Supply chain   
    restructuring   
    and   
    consolidation        0.01       0.00        0.48        0.00   
   Corporate asset   
   impairment   
   charges                 --         --        0.06          --   
   Headcount   
    actions and   
    related   
    severance            0.00       0.00        0.05        0.01   
   Professional   
    services             0.01       0.00        0.05        0.01   
   Technology            0.00       0.00        0.01        0.02   
   Loss (gain) on   
    sale of   
    business and   
    classification   
    of assets held   
    for sale               --         --          --        0.01   
   Other                 0.00       0.00        0.01        0.00   
   Loss on   
    extinguishment   
    of debt              0.03         --        0.03        0.02   
   Gain on final   
    settlement of   
    cross currency   
    swaps                  --         --          --        0.00   
   Discrete tax   
    expense   
    (benefit)              --      (0.23)         --       (0.24)   
   Tax effect on   
   actions                 --         --          --          --   
                     --------      -----       -----       -----   
      Diluted   
       earnings   
       (loss) per   
       share from   
       continuing   
       operations,   
       as   
       adjusted     $    0.17   $   0.05    $   0.40    $  (0.07)   
                     ========      =====       =====       =====   
   
   
(1)    Amounts may not be additive due to rounding.   
   
   
TABLE 6-B   
                             HANESBRANDS INC.   
                    Supplemental Financial Information   
       Reconciliation of Select GAAP Measures to Non-GAAP Measures   
                  (in thousands, except per share data)   
                               (Unaudited)   
   
                                                Last Twelve Months   
                                        ----------------------------------   
                                         December 28,      December 30,   
                                              2024              2023   
                                        ---------------  -----------------   
Leverage Ratio:   
   
EBITDA(1) :   
   Income (loss) from continuing   
    operations                           $     (97,995)   $      29,148   
   Interest expense, net                       195,901          214,187   
   Income tax expense (benefit)                 40,601          (14,818)   
   Depreciation and amortization                79,080           79,954   
                                            ----------       ----------   
      Total EBITDA                             217,587          308,471   
   Total restructuring and other   
    action-related charges (excluding   
    tax effect on actions)(2)                  238,635           29,895   
   Other net losses, charges and   
    expenses(3)                                123,499           93,774   
   Total EBITDA from discontinued   
    operations, as adjusted(4)                  10,420          170,013   
                                            ----------       ----------   
      Total EBITDA, as adjusted          $     590,141    $     602,153   
                                            ==========       ==========   
   
Net debt:   
   Debt (current and long-term debt   
    and Accounts Receivable   
    Securitization Facility excluding   
    long term debt issuance costs and   
    debt discount of $17,210 and   
    $36,110, respectively)               $   2,298,267    $   3,336,750   
   (Less) debt related to an   
    unrestricted subsidiary(5)                 (95,000)          (6,000)   
   Other debt and cash adjustments(6)            3,549           24,469   
   (Less) Cash and cash equivalents of   
    continuing operations                     (214,854)        (205,501)   
   (Less) Cash and cash equivalents of   
    discontinued operations                       (500)         (20,284)   
                                            ----------       ----------   
      Net debt                           $   1,991,462    $   3,129,434   
                                            ==========       ==========   
   
Debt/Income (loss) from continuing   
 operations(7)                                   (23.5)           114.5   
                                            ==========       ==========   
   
Net debt/EBITDA, as adjusted(8)                    3.4              5.2   
                                            ==========       ==========   
   
   
(1)    Earnings from continuing operations before interest, taxes,   
       depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) is a non-GAAP financial   
       measure.   
(2)    The last twelve months ended December 28, 2024 includes $172 million of   
       supply chain restructuring and consolidation charges, $20 million of   
       corporate asset impairment charges, $17 million of headcount actions   
       and related severance charges, $16 million of professional services, $9   
       million of a loss on extinguishment of debt, $2 million related to   
       other restructuring and other action-related charges and $2 million of   
       technology charges. The last twelve months ended December 30, 2023   
       includes $8 million of a loss on extinguishment of debt, $8 million of   
       technology charges, $5 million of headcount actions and related   
       severance charges, $4 million of professional services, $4 million of a   
       loss on the classification of assets held for sale, $1 million of   
       supply chain restructuring and consolidation charges, approximately $1   
       million related to other restructuring and other action-related   
       charges, and $(1) million of a gain on the final settlement of cross   
       currency swap contracts. The items included in restructuring and other   
       action-related charges are described in more detail in Table 6-A.   
(3)    Represents other net losses, charges and expenses that can be excluded   
       from the Company's leverage ratio as defined under its Fifth Amended   
       and Restated Credit Agreement, dated November 19, 2021, as amended. The   
       last twelve months ended December 28, 2024, primarily includes $58   
       million of excess and obsolete inventory write-offs, $19 million in   
       other compensation related items primarily stock compensation expense,   
       $16 million of pension non-cash expense, $15 million in charges related   
       to sales incentive amortization, $12 million of non-cash cloud   
       computing expense, $6 million of charges related to the net unrealized   
       losses due to hedging activities, $5 million of other non-cash related   
       charges, $(3) million of bad debt expense and $(4) million of interest   
       expense on debt and amortization of debt issuance costs related to an   
       unrestricted subsidiary. The last twelve months ended December 30,   
       2023, primarily includes $41 million of excess and obsolete inventory   
       write-offs, $18 million in other compensation related items primarily   
       stock compensation expense, $16 million of pension non-cash expense,   
       $12 million in charges related to sales incentive amortization, $8   
       million of non-cash cloud computing expense and $2 million in charges   
       related to the ransomware attack and extraordinary events,   
       approximately $1 million of bad debt expense and $(5) million of   
       interest expense on debt and amortization of debt issuance costs   
       related to an unrestricted subsidiary.   
(4)    Represents Total EBITDA from discontinued operations, as adjusted   
       related to businesses still owned at period end, as adjusted for all   
       items that can be excluded from the Company's leverage ratio as defined   
       under its Fifth Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, dated November   
       19, 2021, as amended. In 2024, EBITDA from discontinued operations, as   
       adjusted excludes EBITDA related to the Initial Close of the global   
       Champion business and U.S. outlet stores business as the sale of these   
       businesses were completed before the period end.   
(5)    Represents amounts outstanding under an existing accounts receivable   
       securitization facility entered into by an unrestricted subsidiary of   
       the Company.   
(6)    Includes drawn and undrawn letters of credit, financing leases and cash   
       balances in certain geographies.   
(7)    Represents Debt divided by Income (loss) from continuing operations   
       which is the most comparable GAAP financial measure to Net debt/EBITDA,   
       as adjusted.   
(8)    Represents the Company's leverage ratio defined as Consolidated Net   
       Total Leverage Ratio under its Fifth Amended and Restated Credit   
       Agreement, dated November 19, 2021, as amended, which excludes net   
       other losses, charges and expenses in addition to restructuring and   
       other action-related charges.   
   
   
                    Quarters Ended          Years Ended   
                  -------------------  ----------------------   
                  December   
                    28,     December   December    December   
                    2024    30, 2023   28, 2024    30, 2023   
                  --------  ---------  ---------  -----------   
Free cash   
flow(1) :   
   Net cash from   
    operating   
    activities    $67,431   $274,405   $264,243   $561,749   
   Capital   
    expenditures   (5,710)    (8,266)   (37,889)   (44,056)   
                   ------    -------    -------    -------   
      Free cash   
       flow       $61,721   $266,139   $226,354   $517,693   
                   ======    =======    =======    =======   
   
   
(1)    Free cash flow includes the results from continuing and discontinued   
       operations for all periods presented.   
   
   
TABLE 7   
                              HANESBRANDS INC.   
                     Supplemental Financial Information   
             Reconciliation of GAAP Outlook to Adjusted Outlook   
                   (in thousands, except per share data)   
                                (Unaudited)   
   
                                         Quarter Ended       Year Ended   
                                         -------------  --------------------   
                                          March 29,         January 3,   
                                              2025              2026   
                                         -------------  --------------------   
Operating profit outlook, as calculated   
 under GAAP                                 $55,000     $420,000 to $440,000   
   Restructuring and other   
    action-related charges                  10,000       $25,000 to $30,000   
                                         -------------  --------------------   
Operating profit outlook, as adjusted       $65,000     $450,000 to $465,000   
                                         =============  ====================   
   
Other expenses outlook, as calculated   
 under GAAP                                 $21,000           $49,000   
   Restructuring and other   
    action-related charges                 (13,000)           (13,000)   
                                         -------------  --------------------   
Other expenses outlook, as adjusted         $8,000            $36,000   
                                         =============  ====================   
   
Diluted earnings (loss) per share from   
continuing operations, as calculated   
under GAAP(1)                               $(0.05)        $0.39 to 0.45   
   Restructuring and other   
   action-related charges                    0.07           0.10 to 0.12   
                                         -------------  --------------------   
Diluted earnings (loss) per share from   
continuing operations, as adjusted           $0.02         $0.51 to $0.55   
                                         =============  ====================   
   
Cash flow from operations outlook, as   
 calculated under GAAP                                        $350,000   
   Capital expenditures outlook                                50,000   
                                                        --------------------   
Free cash flow outlook                                        $300,000   
                                                        ====================   
   
   
(1)    The company expects approximately 354 million diluted weighted average   
       shares outstanding, as calculated under GAAP (no dilution due to GAAP   
       loss from continuing operations) and approximately 359 million diluted   
       weighted average shares outstanding, as adjusted, for the quarter ended   
       March 29, 2025. The company expects approximately 361 million diluted   
       weighted average shares outstanding for the year ended January 3,   
       2026.   
 
```

The Company is unable to reconcile projections of financial performance beyond 2025 without unreasonable efforts, because the Company cannot predict, with a reasonable degree of certainty, the type and extent of certain items that would be expected to impact these figures in 2025 and beyond, such as net sales, operating profit, tax rates and action related charges.

View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20250213774231/en/

CONTACT: News Media contact: Jonathan Binder (336) 682-9654

Analysts and Investors contact: T.C. Robillard (336) 519-2115

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250213007253:0/)
