---
title: "4 Mistakes You Might Not Know You're Making With Your Target-Date Fund — Barrons.com"
date: "2025-02-09 16:30:00"
summary: "By Neal TemplinTarget-date funds were intended as the ultimate invest-it-and-forget-it vehicle for workers who need outside help to manage their retirement portfolios. But there are still a few things to keep in mind with these funds.Some $3.5 trillion was parked in target-date funds at the end of 2023, according to..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Neal Templin

Target-date funds were intended as the ultimate invest-it-and-forget-it vehicle for workers who need outside help to manage their retirement portfolios. But there are still a few things to keep in mind with these funds.

Some $3.5 trillion was parked in target-date funds at the end of 2023, according to Morningstar, with much of that sum in 401(k) plans where they're often the default investment.

Target-date funds are constructed to perform like a broadly diversified, risk-adjusted portfolio. Ideally, your entire retirement account should be in a single target-date fund. You could be in this fund for decades and should avoid funds with high fees that will eat into returns. While target-date funds work great for young investors accumulating wealth, they don't work as well for retirees who already are spending down their nest egg.

One Fund Is All You Need

Target-date funds are for people who don't have the knowledge, time, or desire to create and manage a balanced portfolio. The first ones appeared in the early 1990s, but they didn't explode in popularity until the 2006 Pension Protection Act encouraged employers to enroll more workers in retirement plans using default investments, including target-date funds. About two in three of those workers are currently in target-date funds.

The funds typically include a mix of stocks and bonds, both domestic and foreign. You simply pick the year you plan to retire and the corresponding target-date fund. The fund gets more conservative as you age. In essence, the fund is acting like your personal pension plan manager.

It defeats the purpose of the target-date fund if you buy other stocks or bonds in the same account because it throws your overall allocations out of whack. Yet many investors do exactly that, says Marianela Collado, a Plantation, Fla., financial advisor whose firm designs 401(k) plans for companies in addition to managing money.

"I see people use them incorrectly," she says. "I see them pick different target-date funds, and then pick bond funds or stock funds."

The whole point of a target-date fund is you don't need to own multiple funds for diversification. The fund is already doing that on its own.

"It's a much better way of investing in a 401(k) than each person building their own portfolio," says David Blanchett, portfolio manager and head of retirement research for PGIM, the investment management company of Prudential Financial.

High Fees Are a Killer

Most target-date funds have similar holdings for similar-aged workers. Where they can differ is fees.

Say you and your employer invest a total of $40,000 a year in that target-date fund over 30 years. Suppose the fund averages 5% annual returns before fees. If your fund has 0.4% annual fees — the high end for target-date funds — your investment will grow to $2.647 million over 30 years. However, if that fund has a more typical 0.1% annual fee, your retirement would be worth $2.801 million, more than $150,000 extra.

Fees have come down. Michael Finke, a professor of wealth management at the American College of Financial Services, says companies are afraid of getting sued for not acting as a fiduciary for the workers if they don't pick target-date funds with low fees for their retirement plans. "There's a lot of risk to companies if they select an expensive target-date fund," he says.

One Size Doesn't Fit All

As workers grow older, their goals and needs tend to diverge. Target-date funds, which lump all people who expect to retire at a certain date in the same fund, aren't set up to handle that.

For example, workers slated to get big pensions may not need other retirement income. Instead of protecting their 401(k), they may choose to invest more aggressively to leave a bigger legacy for their heirs or charity. A target-date fund, by contrast, gets less aggressive over time.

One way to counteract this is to invest in a target-date fund designed for investors with a later retirement year than yours, says PGIM's Blanchett. Let's say you are retiring in 2025 and don't need the money in retirement. You could invest in a target-date fund for people retiring in 2060 with more aggressive stock allocations. "It's really worth understanding what is the right portfolio for you," he says.

They Work Less Well for Retirees

Target-date funds are great at accumulating assets for workers. They are not as good at funding retirement, says Wade Pfau, author of the Retirement Planning Guidebook.

Some funds keep their investments static when investors hit retirement age. Others continue to get increasingly conservative. Neither approach offers a simple and safe way for investors to get pension-like income in retirement, according to Pfau.

A few target-date funds are trying to bridge that gap. Consider the BlackRock LifePath Paycheck funds, which launched in April and already have $16 billion in assets. Beginning at age 59 1/2 , investors have the option to convert a portion of their assets in the funds into annuities to give them more regular income in retirement. J.P.Morgan last year launched a similar product called SmartRetirement Lifetime Income.

"Retirement savers want a solution that turns complexity into clarity, allowing them to have the certainty of a source of income they cannot outlive, without giving up control of their savings," said Steve Rubino, head of retirement for J.P.Morgan Asset Management, when launching the fund.

Finke of the American College of Financial Services expects asset managers to eventually come out with more target-date funds that help retirees receive predictable income that doesn't fluctuate sharply with up and down markets. "Essentially what we've done is put this protective bubble wrap around the employees by giving them this automated way to invest for retirement," he says. "And then at retirement, we dump all this money in their lap and say, 'Good luck.'"

Write to Neal Templin at neal.templin@barrons.com

This content was created by Barron's, which is operated by Dow Jones & Co. Barron's is published independently from Dow Jones Newswires and The Wall Street Journal.

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250209000290:0/)
