---
title: "EMEA Morning Briefing: Markets Digest Trump's Reciprocal Tariff Push"
date: "2025-02-14 13:01:00"
summary: "MARKET WRAPSWatch For:EU GDP; trading updates from Safran, SEGRO, Hermes International, NatWest Group, CVC Capital Partners, United Utilities GroupOpening Call:European stock futures were mostly lower early Friday. Asian benchmarks advanced amid news that U.S. reciprocal tariffs will not take effect immediately; the dollar fell; Treasury yields were little changed; oil..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

MARKET WRAPS

Watch For:

EU GDP; trading updates from Safran, SEGRO, Hermes International, NatWest Group, CVC Capital Partners, United Utilities Group

Opening Call:

European stock futures were mostly lower early Friday. Asian benchmarks advanced amid news that U.S. reciprocal tariffs will not take effect immediately; the dollar fell; Treasury yields were little changed; oil and gold futures advanced.

Equities:

Stock futures pointed to a largely lower open Friday as traders digested news that President Trump has ordered federal agencies to explore how to adjust U.S. tariffs to match those of other countries.

However, Trump's order stops short of actually imposing tariffs immediately. "Tariff ambiguity still reigns," National Australia Bank's Ray Attrill said in commentary. "But, markets are currently drawing some comfort from the news the next set won't come into effect before April," he said.

The eventual action could hit lower-tariff nations by taking into account nontrade barriers, such as taxes on American companies, government subsidies for companies in their home countries or regulations that prevent U.S. companies from doing business in foreign countries.

Trump's team will likely target nations such as European Union members with value-added taxes.

Forex:

The euro's current strength might not last as optimism for a deal to end the Ukraine war looks overdone, Monex Europe said. The prospect of Russian gas supplies resuming seems unlikely as that would leave the rest of Europe hostage to further Russian aggression, it said. Further, a deal could prove detrimental to Europe's security in the longer term.

"We continue to see downside risks to the euro in the short to medium term, despite the initial bias to take the single currency higher."

Bonds:

Fixed-income portfolio managers should avoid taking outsized bets and stick to the duration their clients need, as markets face increased uncertainty, said PGIM's Gregory Peters.

"We are in a higher inflation regime and consequently we are in a higher rate regime," he said.

Meanwhile, taking risks doesn't seem to be paying off, he said. Peters likes Treasurys over corporates as spreads are tight. "The concern is on the valuation side, that I'm not getting paid for any risks."

Energy:

Oil futures rose early Friday, supported in part by the delay in President Trump's reciprocal tariffs. Sentiment is further supported by IEA's more bullish outlook on the oil market, ANZ said. The IEA expects the global oil surplus to be only 450,000 barrels per day in 2025, half the surplus it forecast two months ago, ANZ said.

Metals:

Gold edged higher in Asia, supported by prospects of more U.S. tariffs. Demand for gold has surged as investors seek to protect themselves against the impact of such a damaging economic event, ANZ said.

-

Comex/LME arbitrage has continued to widen further for copper, supporting LME prices, said Sucden Financial. The cash to three-month spread has contracted, suggesting growing concerns about potential material tightness, it said.

"While there have been no clear updates regarding metal tariffs since the start of the week, markets are growing concerned about the implications for supply availability," it said, adding that this concern is reflected more strongly in the Comex market.

TODAY'S TOP HEADLINES

Vance Wields Threat of Sanctions, Military Action to Push Putin Into Ukraine Deal

PARIS-Vice President JD Vance said Thursday that the U.S. would hit Moscow with sanctions and potentially military action if Russian President Vladimir Putin won't agree to a peace deal with Ukraine that guarantees Kyiv's long-term independence.

Vance said the option of sending U.S. troops to Ukraine if Moscow failed to negotiate in good faith remained "on the table," striking a far tougher tone than did Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth, who on Wednesday suggested the U.S. wouldn't commit forces.

Trump Orders Federal Agencies to Study Reciprocal Tariffs

WASHINGTON-President Trump ordered federal agencies on Thursday to explore how to adjust U.S. tariffs to match those of other countries, a move that threatens international rules in place for decades.

The order stops short of actually imposing the tariffs immediately, as many foreign capitals feared, and instead directs the Commerce Department and the U.S. trade representative to deliver reports on the steps to be taken to achieve reciprocal trading status. Commerce Secretary nominee Howard Lutnick said those studies should be completed by April 1.

Trump Wants the U.S. to Control Gaza. So, Who Owns It Anyway?

President Trump wants the U.S. to control the Gaza Strip, but it isn't even clear who owns it.

Determining the ownership and control of Gaza might be among the most complicated territorial questions on Earth.

Barclays Faces Probe From U.K. Regulator Over Money-Laundering Controls

Barclays faces an investigation from the U.K.'s financial watchdog over its anti-money-laundering and financial crimes controls, the London-based institution has disclosed.

The Financial Conduct Authority, the U.K.'s main financial services regulator, is conducting a civil enforcement investigation into Barclays's controls, the bank said Thursday in its annual report. Barclays is cooperating with the investigation, it said.

Apple and Google Restore TikTok to Mobile App Stores

Apple and Google restored the TikTok app to their mobile app stores Thursday night, weeks after removing it to comply with a U.S. law requiring TikTok's Chinese parent, ByteDance, to sell it or shut it down.

The iPhone maker decided to restore the app after a letter from U.S. Attorney General Pam Bondi, according to a person familiar with the matter.

Meta Platforms Raises Dividend by 5% as It Increases Overall Capital Spending

Investments in artificial intelligence and data centers aren't the only projects that Meta Platforms is willing to spend on.

The Facebook and Instagram parent on Thursday outlined a plan to return more money to shareholders, increasing its quarterly dividend by 5%, to 52.5 cents.

Write to singaporeeditors@dowjones.com

Expected Major Events for Friday

00:01/UK: Jan Scottish Retail Sales Monitor

05:30/NED: Dec International trade

07:00/ROM: Jan CPI

07:00/ROM: 4Q Evolution of GDP (estimated data)

07:00/GER: Jan WPI

07:30/HUN: Dec Construction

07:30/SWI: Jan Import Price Index

07:30/SWI: Jan PPI

08:00/SVK: 4Q Flash estimate of total employment

08:00/SVK: 4Q Flash estimate of GDP

08:00/SPN: Jan CPI

08:30/NED: 4Q GDP - 1st estimate

08:30/NED: Dec Consumer Spending

09:00/BUL: 4Q Flash Estimate GDP

09:00/POL: Dec Merchandise trade

09:00/BUL: Jan CPI

09:00/POL: Jan CPI

10:00/CYP: 4Q GDP (Flash Estimate)

10:00/EU: 4Q Flash Estimate GDP

10:00/EU: 4Q Flash estimate employment EU and euro area

10:00/GRE: Jan CPI

15:59/UKR: Dec Trade

All times in GMT. Powered by Onclusive and Dow Jones.

Write to us at newsletters@dowjones.com

We offer an enhanced version of this briefing that is optimized for viewing on mobile devices and sent directly to your email inbox. If you would like to sign up, please go to https://newsplus.wsj.com/subscriptions.

This article is a text version of a Wall Street Journal newsletter published earlier today.

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250214000067:0/)
