---
title: "These Stocks Are Moving the Most Today: Cleveland-Cliffs, Super Micro, Phillips 66, Fluence Energy, Lattice Semiconductor, Meta, and More — Barrons.com"
date: "2025-02-11 18:11:00"
summary: "By Joe WoelfelStock futures fell Tuesday as President Donald Trump announced 25% tariffs on imports of steel and aluminum to the U.S. and Wall Street looked ahead to congressional testimony from Federal Reserve Chairman Jerome Powell.These stocks were poised to make moves Tuesday:Cleveland-Cliffs was rising 2.9% in premarket trading, extending..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Joe Woelfel

Stock futures fell Tuesday as President Donald Trump announced 25% tariffs on imports of steel and aluminum to the U.S. and Wall Street looked ahead to congressional testimony from Federal Reserve Chairman Jerome Powell.

These stocks were poised to make moves Tuesday:

Cleveland-Cliffs was rising 2.9% in premarket trading, extending gains from Monday when shares of the steel company jumped 18% in anticipation of Trump's announcement of steel tariffs. Nucor was up 2% after gaining 5.6% on Monday, while United States Steel gained 1.6% in premarket trading after rising 4.8% in the previous session.

U.S.-listed shares of BP rose slightly after the U.K. oil giant reported fourth-quarter earnings that missed analysts' expectations and CEO Murray Auchincloss said BP would reset its strategy and "drive further improvements in performance, all in service of growing cash flow and returns." The plans, which will be unveiled Feb. 26 at BP's capital markets day, follow a report from The Wall Street Journal that said activist Elliott Investment Management has built a stake in the British oil giant and would be pushing for changes to improve the company's performance.

Phillips 66 rose 3.7% after the Journal reported Elliott has built a stake of more than $2.5 billion in the oil refiner and plans to push the company to consider operational changes to boost its stock. The Journal report cited people familiar with the matter.

Meta Platforms extended its winning streak to 16 sessions after shares of the parent company of Facebook and Instagram closed Monday up 0.4% to $717.40, a record high. Meta has gained more than 17% over the 16 days, and has risen 23% this year, according to Dow Jones Market Data. In premarket trading, Meta was down 0.4% at $714.43.

Lattice Semiconductor surged 14% after fourth-quarter earnings beat analysts' expectations and the company's forecast for the first quarter also topped forecasts. Lattice Semiconductor said it expects first-quarter adjusted earnings of 20 cents to 24 cents a share on revenue of between $115 million and $125 million. Analysts has been expecting profit of 21 cent a share on revenue of $118.8 million.

Fluence Energy sank 35% after the energy-storage company posted a wider first-quarter loss and said it was cutting its fiscal 2025 revenue guidance "due to the timing of certain contracts in Australia that the company now expects to sign later this year." Fluence said it expects revenue to range from $3.1 billion to $3.7 billion, below its prior guidance of $3.6 billion to $4.4 billion. Fluence said it "experienced customer-driven delays in signing certain contracts that, coupled with competitive pressures, result in the need to lower our fiscal year 2025 outlook."

Fourth-quarter adjusted earnings and revenue at Astera Labs topped analysts' expectations and the semiconductor company's forecast for the first quarter also came in higher than forecasts. The stock, however, fell 4.8%.

Harmonic tumbled 27% after issuing a forecast for the first quarter and year that was short of analysts' expectations. The designer and developer of video delivery software said it expects first-quarter earnings of 2 cents to 8 cents a share, below Wall Street estimates of 12 cents.

Earnings reports are expected Tuesday from Coca-Cola, Shopify, Gilead Sciences, DoorDash, Humana, Carrier Global, DuPont, Zillow, Super Micro Computer, AutoNation, Upstart Holdings, and Lyft.

Super Micro Computer said last week it would be providing a fiscal second-quarter "business update" on Tuesday after the closing bell. The artificial-intelligence server maker has yet to file its annual accounts for the last fiscal year, which ended June 30. Shares of the server maker jumped nearly 18% on Monday, extending a winning streak to five consecutive sessions. It has risen 60% over the five days. Super Micro fell 6.3% in premarket trading.

Coca-Cola was up 0.2% in premarket trading. The beverage giant is scheduled to report fourth-quarter earnings Tuesday before the stock market opens. Analysts expect the beverage giant to post earnings of 52 cents a share, while sales are expected to decline by 2.5% from a year earlier to $10.68 billion.

Write to Joe Woelfel at joseph.woelfel@barrons.com

This content was created by Barron's, which is operated by Dow Jones & Co. Barron's is published independently from Dow Jones Newswires and The Wall Street Journal.

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250211002302:0/)
