---
title: "The Brands Making Their Super Bowl Ad Debuts This Year"
date: "2025-02-10 06:22:00"
summary: "By Suzanne VranicaFor decades, the Super Bowl ad game was a battleground for marketing giants. Anheuser-Busch, General Motors and other big spenders locked in prime-time spots year after year. But over the past few years, a new wave of advertisers has increasingly crashed the party: smaller or lesser-known brands that..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Suzanne Vranica

For decades, the Super Bowl ad game was a battleground for marketing giants. Anheuser-Busch, General Motors and other big spenders locked in prime-time spots year after year. But over the past few years, a new wave of advertisers has increasingly crashed the party: smaller or lesser-known brands that bet big chunks of their annual ad budgets for a shot at viral fame.

Media fragmentation has made it harder to reach massive audiences, making the Super Bowl's 100 million-plus viewers a tempting bet. As a result, the number of first-time advertisers has climbed, transforming the big game into a proving ground for up-and-comers.

MSC Cruises, HexClad cookware, OpenAI, Bosch appliances, shopping-rewards app Fetch, personal-finance website NerdWallet, Haagen-Dazs ice cream, telehealth brand Hims & Hers and bottled-water brands Cirkul and Liquid Death are among the brands making their Super Bowl debuts this year.

In the 2010s, an average of just eight first-time advertisers joined the fray each year, according to an ad-tracking firm. This year, there will be more than a dozen.

One memorable ad can launch a brand into pop culture, but a misfire can spell disaster. Just ask Groupon, whose big-game ad in 2011 led to a negative social-media storm because it made references to Tibet. And Under Armour's stock took a dive in 2008 after the company revealed it had spent a significant chunk of its $16 million ad budget on a single Super Bowl commercial. (The stock rebounded once the company reassured investors that its marketing spend wasn't actually increasing.)

For rookies, the Super Bowl represents a make-or-break moment. Will anyone fumble their big shot?

This item is part of a Wall Street Journal live coverage event. The full stream can be found by searching P/WSJL (WSJ Live Coverage).

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250209000797:0/)
