---
title: "Super Micro Gives an Update Today. What Wall Street Wants from AI Server Maker. — Barrons.com"
date: "2025-02-11 15:30:00"
summary: "By Tae KimSuper Micro Computer investors have been riding a roller coaster through a cloud of uncertainty about the AI server maker's accounting practices. The company will issue a business update for the second quarter of its 2025 fiscal year after the market closes Tuesday.Investors are hoping Super Micro's management..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Tae Kim

Super Micro Computer investors have been riding a roller coaster through a cloud of uncertainty about the AI server maker's accounting practices. The company will issue a business update for the second quarter of its 2025 fiscal year after the market closes Tuesday.

Investors are hoping Super Micro's management will provide clarity on whether the company can file its 10-K with the Securities and Exchange Commission for the year through June 30, and the 10-Q report for the quarter ended in September, later this month.

Wall Street is also looking forward to news about Super Micro's performance in its December quarter. The analyst consensus estimates are for Super Micro to report December quarter revenue of $5.77 billion with adjusted earnings per share of 61 cents. Analysts' estimates for the current quarter are for revenue of $5.92 billion with EPS of 65 cents.

In December, Super Micro received an extension from the Nasdaq until Feb. 25 to file its 10-K and 10-Q documents to maintain compliance with Nasdaq's listing rules, which require timely filing of reports with SEC.

It came after a flurry of developments earlier last year. Super Micro announced in August it wouldn't be able to file its 10-K on time. The company's auditor Ernst & Young then resigned in October, flagging concerns about the company's internal controls. The company appointed BDO as its new auditor in November.

On Monday, Wedbush analyst Matt Bryson reaffirmed his Neutral rating on Super Micro stock, citing its listing status.

"We see substantial unknowns heading into Super Micro's earnings call tomorrow, which leaves us on the sidelines," he wrote.

Super Micro stock is down 44% in the last 12 months, but has rebounded off the lows rallying 69% over the last three months.

Write to Tae Kim at tae.kim@barrons.com

This content was created by Barron's, which is operated by Dow Jones & Co. Barron's is published independently from Dow Jones Newswires and The Wall Street Journal.

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250211001170:0/)
