---
title: "Safran Raises Dividend, 2025 Outlook After Record Earnings"
date: "2025-02-14 14:14:00"
summary: "By Pierre BertrandSafran has raised its dividend and increased its adjusted earnings outlook for this year, after demand for after-market services, equipment and aircraft interiors helped propel record earnings in 2024.The French aerospace-industry supplier on Friday said that it expects to record 4.8 billion euros to 4.9 billion euros ($5.02..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Pierre Bertrand

Safran has raised its dividend and increased its adjusted earnings outlook for this year, after demand for after-market services, equipment and aircraft interiors helped propel record earnings in 2024.

The French aerospace-industry supplier on Friday said that it expects to record 4.8 billion euros to 4.9 billion euros ($5.02 billion-$5.13 billion) in adjusted recurring operating income--its preferred measure of profitability.

That is up from previous guidance of 4.7 billion euros to 4.8 billion euros.

At the same time, Safran raised its 2025 adjusted free cash flow outlook to a range of 3.0 billion euros to 3.2 billion euros, from 2.8 billion euros to 3.0 billion euros previously.

The raised outlook comes as the company said that it made 3.07 billion euros in adjusted net profit in 2024, a 51% increase from the prior year. Adjusted recurring operating income grew 30% to 4.12 billion euros.

Adjusted revenue rose 18% to 27.32 billion euros and the company said that it would propose a 32% dividend increase to 2.90 euros.

The result compares with analysts' expectations of 4.13 billion euros in adjusted recurring operating income from 27.16 billion euros in adjusted revenue, according to a company-provided consensus.

Write to Pierre Bertrand at pierre.bertrand@wsj.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250214000645:0-safran-raises-dividend-2025-outlook-after-record-earnings/)
