---
title: "Lyft says rides have gotten cheaper. Here's why investors are selling."
date: "2025-02-12 08:02:00"
summary: "By Bill PetersCEO says Lyft is 'in advanced discussions' with partners on autonomous vehicles. Board also OKs stock repurchase of up to $500 million.Shares of Lyft Inc. slid in extended trading Tuesday after the ride-hailing platform offered a forecast for a key demand metric that came in below Wall Street's..."
categories:
  - "MarketWatch"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "MarketWatch"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Bill Peters

CEO says Lyft is 'in advanced discussions' with partners on autonomous vehicles. Board also OKs stock repurchase of up to $500 million.

Shares of Lyft Inc. slid in extended trading Tuesday after the ride-hailing platform offered a forecast for a key demand metric that came in below Wall Street's expectations, as it lowered prices to stay competitive with rivals like Uber Technologies Inc.

Lyft (LYFT) said it expected first-quarter gross bookings, which measure what the company charges customers for rides and other services, of around $4.05 billion to $4.2 billion. That was a bit below Wall Street's expectations for $4.24 billion.

Shares sank 10% after hours on Tuesday. The company, in its earnings release, said "the recent pricing environment in the U.S. market" was a factor in that forecast.

"We've had a record-breaking year, with a very healthy Lyft marketplace and strong rise in growth," Chief Financial Officer Erin Brewer said during Lyft's earnings call. "At the same time, we've also seen new dynamics resulting in overall lower prices in the U.S. market, which started late in the fourth quarter."

She added later: "As you know, our strategy is always to price competitively. So we lowered base prices. We did some additional couponing in the last few weeks of the year to keep our marketplace balanced and prices competitive."

She said the first quarter was typically Lyft's slowest, as people recover from the holidays and winter weather keeps them from going outside more often. Rides during that period are often shorter.

Shares of Uber (UBER) also fell last week after its own gross-bookings outlook came up short. Analysts pointed to things like foreign exchange and the impact from harsher weather and natural disasters, like the fires in Los Angeles last month.

For the fourth quarter, Lyft said it had $4.28 billion in gross bookings, a 15% jump year over year but shy of FactSet forecasts for $4.32 billion. It had revenue of $1.55 billion, just below analysts' forecasts for $1.56 billion. Lyft earned 15 cents a share on a GAAP basis; Wall Street forecast a one-cent per-share loss.

The company said its board had authorized the repurchase of up to $500 million worth of its stock.

Lyft reported the results as it starts to produce positive free cash flow and as it tries to improve profitability. Rides, active riders and service speeds improved during the quarter.

This month, Lyft began making its Price Lock feature - in which riders can pay to lock in a set price for rides they take routinely - available all day to select users. Management on Tuesday said they planned to boost margins this year by improving and expanding Lyft's higher-end ride services, Lyft Black and Lyft SUV, and by growing its segment that allows brands to purchase in-app ads.

Meanwhile, Wall Street has become more focused on the ride-hailing industry's plans to bring more autonomous vehicles into its car fleets, as Waymo vehicles become a more common sight in cities.

"We're in advanced discussions with a number of other partners," Lyft Chief Executive David Risher said in a statement to MarketWatch. "The AV future will have many players across the value chain, including several emerging behind the scenes."

He added: "We believe the more AVs, the more the rideshare market expands and the better Lyft does."

Risher, in a post on X on Monday, said the company was planning to make autonomous vehicles available for rides in Dallas as soon as 2026. Those cars would be owned by Japan-based Marubeni - which among many other things manages vehicle fleets - and outfitted with self-driving technology from Mobileye Global Inc. (MBLY).

The ride-sharing company said it planned to expand those services to other cities in the months ahead. Lyft announced a partnership with Mobileye in November.

Last week, Lyft said it was joining forces with the artificial-intelligence company Anthropic, and said it had incorporated Anthropic's AI assistant Claude into customer-support services. Lyft said the collaboration would help it develop more AI technology elsewhere.

BofA analysts, in a research note last month, said they expected gig-economy and autonomous-vehicle companies to benefit under new U.S. Transportation Secretary Sean Duffy, who has proposed a federal-level law to govern those businesses rather than a state-by-state patchwork.

Uber Chief Executive Dara Khosrowshahi said during last week's earnings call it could take some time before financial gains from autonomous-vehicle technology take hold, and that "many, many more players" were likely to emerge.

But he said autonomous vehicles would require clear regulations, strong safety and service standards, and cheaper hardware.

"There are national regulations, state regulations, city regulations, it's pretty complicated," he said. "Obviously, regulators have to get comfortable with this new technology on the streets affecting our every day."

"Second, in order to get regulators comfortable, we think you need a consistently superhuman safety record," he continued. "We don't think it's good enough for an autonomous driver to be better than a human. I think we have the chance to be multiple times better than a human."

-Bill Peters

This content was created by MarketWatch, which is operated by Dow Jones & Co. MarketWatch is published independently from Dow Jones Newswires and The Wall Street Journal.

[MarketWatch](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_SN20250211012650:0/)
