---
title: "Energy & Utilities Roundup: Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-14 17:20:00"
summary: "The latest Market Talks covering Energy and Utilities. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires at 4:20 ET, 12:20 ET and 16:50 ET.0131 GMT - Oil prices are higher in early Asian trade, supported in part by the delay in President Trump's reciprocal tariffs. President Trump on Thursday ordered federal agencies..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The latest Market Talks covering Energy and Utilities. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires at 4:20 ET, 12:20 ET and 16:50 ET.

0131 GMT - Oil prices are higher in early Asian trade, supported in part by the delay in President Trump's reciprocal tariffs. President Trump on Thursday ordered federal agencies to explore how to adjust U.S. tariffs to match those of other countries until April without imposing the tariffs immediately. The sentiment is further supported by IEA's more bullish outlook on the oil market, ANZ Research says in a research note. The IEA expects the global oil surplus to be only 450,000 barrels per day in 2025, half the surplus it forecasted two months ago, ANZ says. Front-month WTI rises 0.2% to $71.47/bbl and Brent is 0.3% higher at $75.23/bbl.(sherry.qin@wsj.com)

0025 GMT - Origin Energy's dividend looks safe despite the drag on free cash flow and net debt from the forward sale of 30 liquefied natural gas cargoes from the APLNG project in 2018, Citi says. The cargoes are due to be delivered to Japan's Kansai Electric from 2025. "The price will not be today's market price, but the US$1.1 billion that was forward sold by APLNG," analyst James Byrne says. While that equates to US$37 million per cargo, there is no cash flow earned, Citi says. Origin's balance sheet is in good shape, meaning it can stretch its payout ratio beyond the minimum 50% framework to compensate for the drag on cash flow, Citi says; "A progressive dividend policy is likely still the right way to think about the outlook." (david.winning@wsj.com; @dwinningWSJ)

1903 GMT [Dow Jones]--Crude futures shake off most of their early losses and settle slightly lower with the aid of a modestly positive IEA report in which the Paris-based agency raised its oil demand growth estimate for this year and lowered its expected supply surplus. "Trump/Putin headlines around ending the war in Ukraine, and Hamas/Israel efforts to save the ceasefire in Gaza drilled crude oil to multi-week lows earlier in the session," says Mizuho's Robert Yawger, but "the barrel managed to counterpunch effectively." President Trump's order to study reciprocal trade tariffs, when many expected immediate effect, "seemingly kicks the can down the street on a what could have been a nasty little crude oil demand destruction event," Yawger adds. WTI settles down 0.1% at $71.29 a barrel, and Brent slips 0.2% to $75.02 a barrel. (anthony.harrup@wsj.com)

1842 GMT - Growing global demand for U.S. ethanol is positioning the industry for continued success, but policy uncertainly clouds the market outlook, CoBank said. U.S. ethanol exports hit record levels last year, as domestic producers shipped more than 1.9 billion gallons abroad, CoBank said. Biofuel inclusion or blending rate policies in foreign markets will likely determine if strong exports will continue, CoBank said. The market may also be impacted by policy uncertainty at home and abroad. Jacqui Fatka, farm supply and biofuels economist with CoBank, said currently, the best opportunity to increase ethanol demand in 2025 remains in the export market. CoBank is a cooperative bank serving industries across rural America. (stephen.nakrosis@wsj.com)

1628 GMT - Eversource Energy's 4Q results and earnings call were encouraging, Siebert Williams Shank analysts say in a research note. The energy company could have higher 2026-2027 EPS growth, as well as over the next five years, given improved cash flows and interest expense savings, the analysts say. Still, earnings call participants appeared disappointed by the temporary lull in 2025 EPS growth and remained more focus on that more modest near-term growth. Siebert Williams Shank cuts its target price to $85 a share from $87 a share previously. Shares rise 5.4% to $62.95. (sabela.ojea@wsj.com; @sabelaojeaguix)

1454 GMT - Fortis's premium valuation is justified by the utility's strong position and incremental capex opportunities, but there looks to be little room for multiple expansionfrom here, Jefferies reckons. It initiates coverage with a hold call and C$67 target price. Jefferies' analysts forecast about 5% compound annual EPS growth for Fortis through 2029, assuming flat foreign exchange rates. Still, they also see limited balance sheet flexibility, which could be exacerbated by forex swings and/or tax reform. Fortis now up 0.7% at C$63.12. (robb.stewart@wsj.com; @RobbMStewart)

1417 GMT - Keyera logged a strong 4Q, with the performance of its liquids infrastructure segment likely to have been the biggest positive surprise for investors, Raymond James' Michael Barth says. Adjusted Ebitda came in at C$313 million, 11% ahead of the analyst's forecast and 8% above the consensus projection. Barth expects the market to react positively, despite distributable cash flow being in line with expectations and no significant incremental news on growth. Raymond James has an outperform call on the shares, which are now up 2.7% at C$42.96.(robb.stewart@wsj.com)

1224 GMT - Oil futures add to the previous session's losses on the possibility of Russia-Ukraine peace talks promoted by President Trump and expectations Trump will outline plans today for reciprocal trade tariffs on countries that impose duties on U.S. goods. Spartan Capital's Peter Cardillo sees "demand factors stemming from these tariffs" contributing to weaker crude, "however, we believe the very low end of the $70 level will likely hold." WTI is off 1.1% at $70.59 a barrel. Brent crude is 1.1% lower at $74.33 a barrel. (anthony.harrup@wsj.com)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250214004149:0/)
