---
title: "Nvidia Stock Wavers. Why It's Set for a Major AI Server Boost. — Barrons.com"
date: "2025-02-13 18:15:00"
summary: "By Adam ClarkNvidia stock was edging up early Thursday. The chip maker looks to be in a lull after its volatile start to the year but signs of big demand for artificial-intelligence infrastructure should support the stock.Nvidia shares were up less than 0.1% at $131.17 in premarket trading. The stock..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Adam Clark

Nvidia stock was edging up early Thursday. The chip maker looks to be in a lull after its volatile start to the year but signs of big demand for artificial-intelligence infrastructure should support the stock.

Nvidia shares were up less than 0.1% at $131.17 in premarket trading. The stock fell 1.3% on Wednesday.

Global shipments of AI servers in 2025 are projected to grow by nearly 28% year over year, according to research firm TrendForce. That would be a slowdown from a 46% increase in 2024 but Nvidia's pricey GB200 NV liquid-cooled rack systems are expected to be in high demand as the most advanced AI infrastructure.

Analysts currently expect Nvidia to report $192.44 billion in revenue for 2025 overall, up from $123.52 billion in 2024.

TrendForce's estimates factor in a more than 30% increase in spending on cloud and AI infrastructure from Amazon.com, Google-parent Alphabet, Microsoft, and Facebook-owner Meta Platforms collectively this year, despite Chinese firm DeepSeek's apparent demonstration of low-cost AI development. However, big U.S. technology companies are likely to expand their use of in-house chips.

"TrendForce highlights that DeepSeek's influence will drive CSPs [cloud service providers] toward lower-cost proprietary ASIC [application-specific integrated circuit] solutions, shifting focus from AI training to AI inference. This shift is expected to gradually increase the share of AI inference servers to nearly 50%," the firm wrote in a research note.

Nvidia has pushed back against suggestions that a shift to inference — the process of generating answers from AI models — from training makes it vulnerable to losing market share. It has previously said inference makes up around 40% of its data-center revenue and is growing fast. It says that its NVL72 server system delivers a fourfold improvement in AI model training but up to a 30 times improvement in inference compared with previous systems.

Among other chip makers, Advanced Micro Devices was rising 0.4% and Broadcom was falling 0.5% in premarket trading.

Write to Adam Clark at adam.clark@barrons.com

This content was created by Barron's, which is operated by Dow Jones & Co. Barron's is published independently from Dow Jones Newswires and The Wall Street Journal.

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250213005025:0/)
