---
title: "News Highlights: Top Global Markets News of the Day - Thursday at 1 PM ET"
date: "2025-02-14 02:15:00"
summary: "Wholesale Inflation Sped Up in January With 0.4% Monthly Gain in PPIThe consensus estimate was for a 0.2% rise in the producer price index.Americans' Eager Holiday Shopping Didn't Bring a Surge in Debtthe number of consumers struggling to pay off their credit-card bills remains elevated.U.S. Jobless Claims Declined Last WeekThe..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

**Wholesale Inflation Sped Up in January With 0.4% Monthly Gain in PPI**

The consensus estimate was for a 0.2% rise in the producer price index.

**Americans' Eager Holiday Shopping Didn't Bring a Surge in Debt**

the number of consumers struggling to pay off their credit-card bills remains elevated.

**U.S. Jobless Claims Declined Last Week**

The number of Americans who filed for new jobless benefits fell to 213,000. Economists polled by The Wall Street Journal had been forecasting 214,000 initial claims.

**Dow Moves Higher as Producer Inflation Tops Forecasts**

U.S. stocks made small gains after January producer price index data came in higher than expected.

**Trump Teases His Next Tariff Announcement. 'Today Is the Big One.'**

President Donald Trump plans to announce so-called reciprocal tariffs, the next major escalation in his global trade war.

**U.K. Ends Year With Weak Growth as Tariffs Threaten New Blow**

The economy grew just 0.1% between October and December from the previous three-month period as the country braces for higher U.S. tariffs.

**Eurozone Industry Ends Bright Streak With Drop in Output**

Industrial production fell 1.1% compared with the month before, quashing signs of recovery seen earlier in the quarter.

**IEA Slightly Lifts Oil Demand Outlook, Says Supply Surplus Narrowing**

The International Energy Agency modestly raised its forecast for global oil-demand growth and said improved compliance with output quotas among members of the OPEC+ alliance is reducing a projected supply surplus in the market.

**As Buyers Fail to Show Up, More Homes Are Being Pulled From Sale**

An increase in the number of properties being delisted could be an early sign of a weakening housing market.

**Inflation Helped Trump Get Elected. Now It's His Problem.**

The president's team blames his predecessor for stubborn inflation, but Trump's own agenda could make it harder to defeat.

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250213013012:0-news-highlights-top-global-markets-news-of-the-day-thursday-at-1-pm-et/)
