---
title: "Agree Realty Corporation Reports Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2024 Results"
date: "2025-02-12 05:05:00"
summary: "(21:05 GMT) *Agree Realty 4Q EPS 41c &gt;ADC(21:05 GMT) *Agree Realty 4Q Rev $160.7M &gt;ADC(21:05 GMT) Press Release: Agree Realty Corporation Reports Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2024 ResultsAgree Realty Corporation Reports Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2024 ResultsPR NewswireROYAL OAK, Mich., Feb. 11, 2025Provides Initial 2025 AFFO Per Share..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

**(21:05 GMT)** \*Agree Realty 4Q EPS 41c >ADC  
**(21:05 GMT)** \*Agree Realty 4Q Rev $160.7M >ADC  
**(21:05 GMT)** Press Release: Agree Realty Corporation Reports Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2024 Results

Agree Realty Corporation Reports Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2024 Results

PR Newswire

ROYAL OAK, Mich., Feb. 11, 2025

Provides Initial 2025 AFFO Per Share Guidance of $4.26 to $4.30

ROYAL OAK, Mich., Feb. 11, 2025 /PRNewswire/ — Agree Realty Corporation (the "Company") today announced results for the quarter and full year ended December 31, 2024. All per share amounts included herein are on a diluted per common share basis unless otherwise stated.

Fourth Quarter 2024 Financial and Operating Highlights:

* Invested approximately $371 million in 127 retail net lease properties
* Commenced eight development or Developer Funding Platform ("DFP") projects for total committed capital of approximately $45 million
* Net Income per share attributable to common stockholders decreased 5.7% to $0.41
* Core Funds from Operations ("Core FFO") per share increased 3.5% to $1.02
* Adjusted Funds from Operations ("AFFO") per share increased 4.7% to $1.04
* Declared a December monthly dividend of $0.253 per common share, a 2.4% year-over-year increase
* Completed a forward equity offering of 5.1 million shares of common stock, including the underwriters' option to purchase additional shares, raising anticipated net proceeds of approximately $368 million
* Sold 0.7 million shares of common stock via the forward component of the Company's at-the-market equity ("ATM") program for anticipated net proceeds of approximately $55 million
* Settled 3.7 million shares of outstanding forward equity for net proceeds of approximately $228 million
* Balance sheet well positioned at 3.3 times proforma net debt to recurring EBITDA; 4.9 times excluding unsettled forward equity

Full Year 2024 Financial and Operating Highlights:

* Invested approximately $951 million in 282 retail net lease properties
* Commenced 25 development or DFP projects for total committed capital of approximately $115 million
* Net Income per share attributable to common stockholders increased 4.8% to $1.78
* Core FFO per share increased 3.7% to $4.08
* AFFO per share increased 4.6% to $4.14
* Declared dividends of $3.00 per share, a 2.8% year-over-year increase
* Achieved upgraded credit rating of BBB+ from S&P Global Ratings with a stable outlook
* Raised approximately $1.1 billion of forward equity via the Company's ATM program and an overnight offering
* Completed a public bond offering of $450 million of senior unsecured notes due 2034 at an all-in rate of 5.65%
* Expanded senior unsecured revolving credit facility (the "Credit Facility") to $1.25 billion while reducing pricing and extending the maturity date to August 2029 inclusive of extension options
* Ended the year with liquidity of over $2.0 billion including availability on the Credit Facility, outstanding forward equity, and cash on hand

Financial Results

Net Income Attributable to Common Stockholders

Net Income for the three months ended December 31, 2024 decreased 1.6% to $43.4 million, compared to Net Income of $44.1 million for the comparable period in 2023. Net Income per share for the three months ended December 31(st) decreased 5.7% to $0.41, compared to Net Income per share of $0.44 for the comparable period in 2023.

Net Income for the twelve months ended December 31, 2024 increased 11.8% to $181.8 million, compared to Net Income of $162.5 million for the comparable period in 2023. Net Income per share for the twelve months ended December 31(st) increased 4.8% to $1.78, compared to Net Income per share of $1.70 for the comparable period in 2023.

Core FFO

Core FFO for the three months ended December 31, 2024 increased 7.9% to $107.6 million, compared to Core FFO of $99.7 million for the comparable period in 2023. Core FFO per share for the three months ended December 31(st) increased 3.5% to $1.02, compared to Core FFO per share of $0.99 for the comparable period in 2023.

Core FFO for the twelve months ended December 31, 2024 increased 10.7% to $416.7 million, compared to Core FFO of $376.5 million for the comparable period in 2023. Core FFO per share for the twelve months ended December 31(st) increased 3.7% to $4.08, compared to Core FFO per share of $3.93 for the comparable period in 2023.

AFFO

AFFO for the three months ended December 31, 2024 increased 9.1% to $109.5 million, compared to AFFO of $100.3 million for the comparable period in 2023. AFFO per share for the three months ended December 31(st) increased 4.7% to $1.04, compared to AFFO per share of $1.00 for the comparable period in 2023.

AFFO for the twelve months ended December 31, 2024 increased 11.6% to $422.8 million, compared to AFFO of $378.7 million for the comparable period in 2023. AFFO per share for the twelve months ended December 31(st) increased 4.6% to $4.14, compared to AFFO per share of $3.95 for the comparable period in 2023.

Dividend

In the fourth quarter, the Company declared monthly cash dividends of $0.253 per common share for each of October, November and December 2024. The monthly dividends declared during the fourth quarter reflect an annualized dividend amount of $3.036 per common share, representing a 2.4% increase over the annualized dividend amount of $2.964 per common share from the fourth quarter of 2023. The dividends represent payout ratios of approximately 74% of Core FFO per share and 73% of AFFO per share, respectively.

For the twelve months ended December 31, 2024, the Company declared monthly cash dividends totaling $3.00 per common share, representing a 2.8% increase over the dividends of $2.919 per common share declared for the comparable period in 2023. The dividends represent payout ratios of approximately 74% of Core FFO per share and 73% of AFFO per share, respectively.

Subsequent to year end, the Company declared a monthly cash dividend of $0.253 per common share for each of January and February 2025. The monthly dividend reflects an annualized dividend amount of $3.036 per common share, representing a 2.4% increase over the annualized dividend amount of $2.964 per common share from the first quarter of 2024. The January dividend is payable on February 14, 2025 to stockholders of record at the close of business on January 31, 2025. The February dividend is payable on March 14, 2025 to stockholders of record at the close of business on February 28, 2025.

Additionally, subsequent to year end, the Company declared a monthly cash dividend for each of January and February 2025 on its 4.25% Series A Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock of $0.08854 per depositary share, which is equivalent to $1.0625 per annum. The January dividend was paid on February 3, 2025, and the February dividend is payable on March 3, 2025 to stockholders of record at the close of business on February 21, 2025.

Earnings Guidance

The table below provides estimates for significant components of our 2025 earnings guidance. In addition, the AFFO per share guidance range includes an estimate for the dilutive impact of the Company's outstanding forward equity calculated in accordance with the treasury stock method.

```
   
                                                           2025 Guidance   
                                                        --------------------   
   
AFFO per share(1)                                          $4.26 to $4.30   
General and administrative expenses (% of adjusted   
revenue)(2)                                                 5.6% to 5.9%   
Non-reimbursable real estate expenses (% of adjusted   
revenue)(2)                                                 1.0% to 1.5%   
Income and other tax expense                              $3 to $4 million   
Investment volume                                       $1.1 to $1.3 billion   
Disposition volume                                       $10 to $50 million   
 
```

The Company's 2025 guidance is subject to risks and uncertainties more fully described in this press release and in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.

(1) The Company does not provide guidance with respect to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure or provide reconciliations to GAAP from its forward-looking non-GAAP financial measure of AFFO per share guidance due to the inherent difficulty of forecasting the effect, timing and significance of certain amounts in the reconciliation that would be required by Item 10(e)(1)(i)(B) of Regulation S-K. Examples of these amounts include impairments of assets, gains and losses from sales of assets, and depreciation and amortization from new acquisitions or developments. In addition, certain non-recurring items may also significantly affect net income but are generally adjusted for in AFFO. Based on our historical experience, the dollar amounts of these items could be significant, and could have a material impact on the Company's GAAP results for the guidance period.

(2) Adjusted revenue excludes the impact of the amortization of above and below market lease intangibles.

CEO Comments

"We are very pleased with our performance this past year as we remained disciplined capital allocators during a period of dislocation, and then preemptively equitized our balance sheet raising $1.1 billion of forward equity," said Joey Agree, President and Chief Executive Officer. "We enter this year in an enviable position with over $2 billion of liquidity and attractive investment opportunities across all three external growth platforms. Given our leading portfolio, fortress balance sheet, and strong pipeline, we are confident in our ability to achieve our AFFO per share guidance for full-year 2025."

Portfolio Update As of December 31, 2024, the Company's portfolio consisted of 2,370 properties located in all 50 states and contained approximately 48.8 million square feet of gross leasable area. At year end, the portfolio was 99.6% leased, had a weighted-average remaining lease term of approximately 7.9 years, and generated 68.2% of annualized base rents from investment grade retail tenants.

Ground Lease Portfolio

During the fourth quarter, the Company acquired six ground leases for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $41.6 million, representing 10.5% of annualized base rents acquired.

As of December 31, 2024, the Company's ground lease portfolio consisted of 229 leases located in 36 states and totaled approximately 6.3 million square feet of gross leasable area. Properties ground leased to tenants represented 10.9% of annualized base rents.

At year end, the ground lease portfolio was fully occupied, had a weighted-average remaining lease term of approximately 9.6 years, and generated 88.2% of annualized base rents from investment grade retail tenants.

Acquisitions

Total acquisition volume for the fourth quarter was approximately $341.5 million and included 98 properties net leased to leading retailers operating in sectors including auto parts, off-price retail, farm and rural supply, home improvement, tire and auto service, and crafts and novelties. The properties are located in 30 states and leased to tenants operating in 20 sectors.

The properties were acquired at a weighted-average capitalization rate of 7.3% and had a weighted-average remaining lease term of approximately 12.3 years. Approximately 73.3% of annualized base rents acquired were generated from investment grade retail tenants.

For the twelve months ended December 31, 2024, total acquisition volume was approximately $866.6 million. The 242 acquired properties are located in 44 states and leased to tenants who operate in 27 retail sectors. The properties were acquired at a weighted-average capitalization rate of 7.5% and had a weighted-average remaining lease term of approximately 10.4 years. Approximately 65.6% of annualized base rents were generated from investment grade retail tenants.

Dispositions

During the fourth quarter, the Company sold eight properties for gross proceeds of approximately $32.0 million. The dispositions were completed at a weighted-average capitalization rate of 7.4%.

During the twelve months ended December 31, 2024, the Company sold 26 properties for gross proceeds of approximately $98.4 million. The dispositions were completed at a weighted-average capitalization rate of 6.7%.

The Company's disposition guidance for 2025 is between $10 million and $50 million.

Development and Developer Funding Platform

During the fourth quarter, the Company commenced eight development or DFP projects, with total anticipated costs of approximately $45.1 million. Construction continued during the quarter on 14 projects with anticipated costs totaling approximately $66.6 million. The Company completed nine projects during the quarter with total costs of approximately $30.5 million.

For the twelve months ended December 31, 2024, the Company had 41 development or DFP projects completed or under construction with anticipated total costs of approximately $179.9 million. The projects are leased to leading retailers including TJX Companies, Burlington, Starbucks, 7-Eleven, Gerber Collision, and Sunbelt Rentals.

The following table presents estimated costs for the Company's active or completed development or DFP projects as of December 31, 2024:

```
   
                                    Twelve Months Ended   
                                     December 31, 2024   
                                    -------------------   
   
Number of Projects                          41   
Costs Funded to Date                     $120,084   
Remaining Funding Costs                   59,842   
Anticipated Total Project Costs          $179,926   
----------------------------------  -------------------   
 
```

Development and DFP project costs are in thousands. Any differences are the result of rounding.

Leasing Activity and Expirations

During the fourth quarter, the Company executed new leases, extensions or options on approximately 538,000 square feet of gross leasable area throughout the existing portfolio. Notable new leases, extensions or options included a 46,000-square foot Best Buy in Tucson, Arizona, and a 19,000-square foot Tractor Supply in Bristol, Virginia.

For the twelve months ended December 31, 2024, the Company executed new leases, extensions or options on approximately 2.0 million square feet of gross leasable area throughout the existing portfolio.

As of December 31, 2024, the Company's 2025 lease maturities represented 1.2% of annualized base rents. The following table presents contractual lease expirations within the Company's portfolio as of December 31, 2024, assuming no tenants exercise renewal options:

```
   
                                                               Percent   
                        Annualized   Percent of       Gross   of Gross   
                         Base Rent   Annualized    Leasable   Leasable   
 Year           Leases         (1)    Base Rent        Area       Area   
-------------  -------  ----------  -----------  ----------  ---------   
   
2025                41      $7,660        1.2 %         820      1.7 %   
2026               122      26,117        4.2 %       2,648      5.5 %   
2027               166      37,851        6.1 %       3,538      7.3 %   
2028               175      45,848        7.4 %       4,085      8.4 %   
2029               207      64,977       10.5 %       6,270     12.9 %   
2030               297      63,787       10.3 %       5,070     10.4 %   
2031               190      44,758        7.2 %       3,286      6.8 %   
2032               243      50,903        8.2 %       3,742      7.7 %   
2033               212      48,454        7.8 %       3,825      7.9 %   
2034               201      45,363        7.3 %       2,930      6.0 %   
 Thereafter        698     185,003       29.8 %      12,364     25.4 %   
   Total   
    Portfolio    2,552    $620,721      100.0 %      48,578    100.0 %   
               =======  ==========  ===========  ==========  =========   
 
```

The contractual lease expirations presented above exclude the effect of replacement tenant leases that had been executed as of December 31, 2024, but that had not yet commenced. Annualized Base Rent and gross leasable area (square feet) are in thousands; any differences are the result of rounding.

(1) Annualized Base Rent represents the annualized amount of contractual minimum rent required by tenant lease agreements as of December 31, 2024, computed on a straight-line basis. Annualized Base Rent is not, and is not intended to be, a presentation in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"). The Company believes annualized contractual minimum rent is useful to management, investors, and other interested parties in analyzing concentrations and leasing activity.

Top Tenants

The following table presents annualized base rents for all tenants that represent 1.5% or greater of the Company's total annualized base rent as of December 31, 2024:

```
   
                           Annualized              Percent of   
 Tenant                  Base Rent(1)    Annualized Base Rent   
---------------------   -------------  ----------------------   
   
 Walmart                      $38,460                   6.2 %   
 Tractor Supply                30,800                   5.0 %   
 Dollar General                28,115                   4.5 %   
 Best Buy                      21,130                   3.4 %   
 TJX Companies                 19,614                   3.2 %   
 CVS                           19,599                   3.2 %   
 Hobby Lobby                   18,200                   2.9 %   
 Dollar Tree                   18,170                   2.9 %   
 Lowe's                        17,884                   2.9 %   
 O'Reilly Auto Parts           17,798                   2.9 %   
 Kroger                        17,102                   2.8 %   
 Gerber Collision              15,039                   2.4 %   
 7-Eleven                      14,164                   2.3 %   
 Burlington                    14,019                   2.3 %   
 Sunbelt Rentals               13,887                   2.2 %   
 Sherwin-Williams              11,809                   1.9 %   
 Home Depot                    10,680                   1.7 %   
 Wawa                           9,916                   1.6 %   
 Other(2)                     284,335                  45.7 %   
   Total Portfolio           $620,721                 100.0 %   
                        =============  ======================   
 
```

Annualized Base Rent is in thousands; any differences are the result of rounding.

(1) Refer to footnote 1 on page 6 for the Company's definition of Annualized Base Rent.

(2) Includes tenants generating less than 1.5% of Annualized Base Rent.

Retail Sectors

The following table presents annualized base rents for all the Company's retail sectors as of December 31, 2024:

```
   
                                                 Percent of   
                                   Annualized    Annualized   
 Sector                          Base Rent(1)     Base Rent   
-----------------------------   -------------  ------------   
   
 Grocery Stores                       $57,424         9.2 %   
 Home Improvement                      56,977         9.2 %   
 Tire and Auto Service                 50,125         8.1 %   
 Convenience Stores                    46,546         7.5 %   
 Dollar Stores                         45,076         7.3 %   
 Auto Parts                            39,893         6.4 %   
 Off-Price Retail                      38,579         6.2 %   
 General Merchandise                   33,904         5.5 %   
 Farm and Rural Supply                 32,572         5.2 %   
 Consumer Electronics                  24,581         4.0 %   
 Pharmacy                              24,550         4.0 %   
 Crafts and Novelties                  20,519         3.3 %   
 Discount Stores                       15,808         2.5 %   
 Warehouse Clubs                       15,742         2.5 %   
 Health Services                       15,297         2.5 %   
 Equipment Rental                      14,943         2.4 %   
 Dealerships                           13,346         2.1 %   
 Restaurants - Quick Service           11,581         1.9 %   
 Health and Fitness                    11,276         1.8 %   
 Sporting Goods                         7,345         1.2 %   
 Financial Services                     7,187         1.2 %   
 Specialty Retail                       6,919         1.1 %   
 Restaurants - Casual Dining            5,704         0.9 %   
 Theaters                               3,854         0.6 %   
 Shoes                                  3,803         0.6 %   
 Pet Supplies                           3,783         0.6 %   
 Home Furnishings                       3,672         0.6 %   
 Beauty and Cosmetics                   3,493         0.6 %   
 Entertainment Retail                   2,323         0.4 %   
 Apparel                                2,016         0.3 %   
 Miscellaneous                          1,259         0.2 %   
 Office Supplies                          624         0.1 %   
   Total Portfolio                   $620,721       100.0 %   
                                =============  ============   
 
```

Annualized Base Rent is in thousands; any differences are the result of rounding.

(1) Refer to footnote 1 on page 6 for the Company's definition of Annualized Base Rent.

Geographic Diversification

The following table presents annualized base rents for all states that represent 1.5% or greater of the Company's total annualized base rent as of December 31, 2024:

```
   
                         Annualized              Percent of   
 State                 Base Rent(1)    Annualized Base Rent   
-------------------   -------------  ----------------------   
   
 Texas                      $42,218                   6.8 %   
 Illinois                    34,178                   5.5 %   
 Michigan                    33,967                   5.5 %   
 North Carolina              32,412                   5.2 %   
 Florida                     32,410                   5.2 %   
 Ohio                        32,390                   5.2 %   
 Pennsylvania                28,539                   4.6 %   
 New York                    28,134                   4.5 %   
 California                  25,454                   4.1 %   
 Georgia                     24,876                   4.0 %   
 New Jersey                  23,877                   3.8 %   
 Wisconsin                   18,122                   2.9 %   
 Missouri                    17,365                   2.8 %   
 Mississippi                 15,626                   2.5 %   
 South Carolina              15,597                   2.5 %   
 Virginia                    15,463                   2.5 %   
 Louisiana                   15,221                   2.5 %   
 Kansas                      13,694                   2.2 %   
 Minnesota                   13,620                   2.2 %   
 Connecticut                 13,211                   2.1 %   
 Tennessee                   12,098                   1.9 %   
 Massachusetts               11,654                   1.9 %   
 Indiana                     11,543                   1.9 %   
 Alabama                     11,091                   1.8 %   
 Oklahoma                     9,452                   1.5 %   
 Other(2)                    88,509                  14.4 %   
   
   Total Portfolio         $620,721                   100.0 %   
                      =============  ========================   
 
```

Annualized Base Rent is in thousands; any differences are the result of rounding.

(1) Refer to footnote 1 on page 6 for the Company's definition of Annualized Base Rent.

(2) Includes states generating less than 1.5% of Annualized Base Rent.

Capital Markets, Liquidity and Balance Sheet

Capital Markets

In October 2024, the Company completed a follow-on public offering of approximately 5.1 million shares of common stock, including the full exercise of the underwriters' option to purchase additional shares, in connection with forward sale agreements. Upon settlement, the offering is anticipated to raise net proceeds of approximately $368.0 million after deducting fees and expenses and making certain other adjustments as provided in the equity distribution agreements. To date, the Company has not received any proceeds from the sale of shares of its common stock by the forward purchasers.

During the fourth quarter, the Company entered into forward sale agreements in connection with its ATM program to sell an aggregate of 0.7 million shares of common stock for net proceeds of $55.2 million. Additionally, the Company settled 3.7 million shares under existing forward sale agreements for net proceeds of $228.2 million.

The following table presents the Company's outstanding forward equity offerings as of December 31, 2024:

```
   
Forward                                                       Anticipated   
Equity         Shares     Shares      Shares    Net Proceeds  Net Proceeds   
Offerings       Sold      Settled    Remaining    Received     Remaining   
----------   ----------  ---------  ----------  ------------  ------------   
   
Q2 2024 ATM   
 Forward   
 Offerings    3,235,964  2,775,498     460,466  $167,006,999   $27,822,532   
Q3 2024 ATM   
 Forward   
 Offerings    6,602,317          -   6,602,317             -  $468,814,372   
Q4 2024 ATM   
 Forward   
 Offerings      739,013          -     739,013             -   $55,229,549   
October   
 2024   
 Forward   
 Offering     5,060,000          -   5,060,000             -  $368,042,642   
             ----------  ---------  ----------  ------------  ------------   
Total   
 Forward   
 Equity   
 Offerings   15,637,294  2,775,498  12,861,796  $167,006,999  $919,909,095   
 
```

Liquidity

As of December 31, 2024, the Company had total liquidity of over $2.0 billion, which includes approximately $1.1 billion of availability under its Credit Facility, $919.9 million of outstanding forward equity, and $6.4 million of cash on hand. The Company's $1.25 billion Credit Facility includes an accordion option that allows the Company to request additional lender commitments of up to a total of $2.0 billion.

Balance Sheet

As of December 31, 2024, the Company's net debt to recurring EBITDA was 4.9 times. The Company's proforma net debt to recurring EBITDA was 3.3 times when deducting the $919.9 million of anticipated net proceeds from the outstanding forward equity offerings from the Company's net debt of $2.8 billion as of December 31, 2024. The Company's fixed charge coverage ratio was 4.4 times at year end.

The Company's total debt to enterprise value was 26.6% as of December 31, 2024. Enterprise value is calculated as the sum of net debt, the liquidation value of the Company's preferred stock, and the market value of the Company's outstanding shares of common stock, assuming conversion of Operating Partnership (or "OP") common units into common stock of the Company.

For the three months and twelve months ended December 31, 2024, the Company's fully diluted weighted-average shares outstanding were 104.7 million and 101.9 million, respectively. The basic weighted-average shares outstanding for the three and twelve months ended December 31, 2024 were 103.3 million and 101.1 million, respectively.

For the three and twelve months ended December 31, 2024, the Company's fully diluted weighted-average shares and units outstanding were 105.0 million and 102.2 million, respectively. The basic weighted-average shares and units outstanding for the three and twelve months ended December 31, 2024 were 103.7 million and 101.4 million, respectively.

The Company's assets are held by, and its operations are conducted through, the Operating Partnership, of which the Company is the sole general partner. As of December 31, 2024, there were 347,619 Operating Partnership common units outstanding, and the Company held a 99.7% common interest in the Operating Partnership.

Conference Call/Webcast

The Company will host its quarterly analyst and investor conference call on Wednesday, February 12, 2025 at 9:00 AM ET. To participate in the conference call, please dial (800) 836-8184 approximately ten minutes before the call begins.

Additionally, a webcast of the conference call will be available via the Company's website. To access the webcast, visit www.agreerealty.com ten minutes prior to the start time of the conference call and go to the Investors section of the website. A replay of the conference call webcast will be archived and available online through the Investors section of www.agreerealty.com.

About Agree Realty Corporation

Agree Realty Corporation is a publicly traded real estate investment trust that is RETHINKING RETAIL through the acquisition and development of properties net leased to industry-leading, omni-channel retail tenants. As of December 31, 2024, the Company owned and operated a portfolio of 2,370 properties, located in all 50 states and containing approximately 48.8 million square feet of gross leasable area. The Company's common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol "ADC". For additional information on the Company and RETHINKING RETAIL, please visit www.agreerealty.com.

Forward-Looking Statements This press release contains forward-looking statements, including statements about projected financial and operating results, within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act") and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"). The Company intends such forward-looking statements to be covered by the safe harbor provisions for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and includes this statement for purposes of complying with these safe harbor provisions. Forward-looking statements are generally identifiable by use of forward-looking terminology such as "may,", "can", "will," "should," "potential," "intend," "expect," "seek," "anticipate," "estimate," "approximately," "believe," "could," "project," "predict," "forecast," "continue," "assume," "plan," "outlook" or other similar words or expressions. Forward-looking statements, including our updated 2025 guidance, are based on certain assumptions and can include future expectations, future plans and strategies, financial and operating projections or other forward-looking information. Although these forward-looking statements are based on good faith beliefs, reasonable assumptions and the Company's best judgment reflecting current information, you should not rely on forward-looking statements since they involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors which are, in some cases, beyond the Company's control and which could materially affect the Company's results of operations, financial condition, cash flows, performance or future achievements or events. Currently, some of the most significant factors, include the potential adverse effect of ongoing worldwide economic uncertainties and increased inflation and interest rates on the financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and performance of the Company and its tenants, the real estate market and the global economy and financial markets. The extent to which these conditions will impact the Company and its tenants will depend on future developments, which are highly uncertain and cannot be predicted with confidence. Moreover, investors are cautioned to interpret many of the risks identified in the risk factors discussed in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K and subsequent quarterly reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"), as well as the risks set forth below, as being heightened as a result of the ongoing and numerous adverse impacts of the macroeconomic environment. Additional important factors, among others, that may cause the Company's actual results to vary include the general deterioration in national economic conditions, weakening of real estate markets, decreases in the availability of credit, increases in interest rates, adverse changes in the retail industry, the Company's continuing ability to qualify as a REIT and other factors discussed in the Company's reports filed with the SEC. The forward-looking statements included in this press release are made as of the date hereof. Unless legally required, the Company disclaims any obligation to update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, changes in the Company's expectations or assumptions or otherwise.

For further information about the Company's business and financial results, please refer to the "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and "Risk Factors" sections of the Company's SEC filings, including, but not limited to, its Annual Report on Form 10-K and Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, copies of which may be obtained at the Investor Relations section of the Company's website at www.agreerealty.com.

The Company defines the "weighted-average capitalization rate" for acquisitions and dispositions as the sum of contractual fixed annual rents computed on a straight-line basis over the primary lease terms and anticipated annual net tenant recoveries, divided by the purchase and sale prices for occupied properties.

The Company defines the "all-in rate" as the interest rate that reflects the straight-line amortization of the terminated swap agreements and original issuance discount, as applicable.

References to "Core FFO" and "AFFO" in this press release are representative of Core FFO attributable to OP common unitholders and AFFO attributable to OP common unitholders. Detailed calculations for these measures are shown in the Reconciliation of Net Income to FFO, Core FFO and Adjusted FFO table as "Core Funds From Operations — OP Common Unitholders" and "Adjusted Funds from Operations — OP Common Unitholders".

```
   
                          Agree Realty Corporation   
                         Consolidated Balance Sheet   
             ($ in thousands, except share and per-share data)   
                                (Unaudited)   
                            December 31, 2024          December 31, 2023   
                        -------------------------  -------------------------   
Assets:   
 Real Estate   
 Investments:   
   Land                 $               2,514,167  $               2,282,354   
   Buildings                            5,412,564                  4,861,692   
   Accumulated   
    depreciation                        (564,429)                  (433,958)   
   Property under   
    development                            55,806                     33,232   
                        -------------------------   
 Net real estate   
  investments                           7,418,108                  6,743,320   
 Real estate held for   
  sale, net                                     -                      3,642   
 Cash and cash   
  equivalents                               6,399                     10,907   
 Cash held in escrows                           -                      3,617   
 Accounts receivable -   
  tenants, net                            106,416                     82,954   
  Lease Intangibles,   
   net of accumulated   
   amortization of   
   $461,419 and   
     $360,061 at   
   December 31, 2024   
   and December 31,   
   2023, respectively                     864,937                    854,088   
 Other assets, net                         90,586                     76,308   
     Total Assets       $               8,486,446  $               7,774,836   
                        =========================  =========================   
   
Liabilities:   
 Mortgage notes   
  payable, net                             42,210                     42,811   
 Unsecured term loan,   
  net                                     347,452                    346,798   
 Senior unsecured   
  notes, net                            2,237,759                  1,794,312   
 Unsecured revolving   
  credit facility                         158,000                    227,000   
 Dividends and   
  distributions   
  payable                                  27,842                     25,534   
 Accounts payable,   
  accrued expenses,   
  and other   
  liabilities                             116,273                    101,401   
 Lease intangibles,   
  net of accumulated   
  amortization of   
  $46,003 and $42,813   
  at December 31, 2024   
  and December 31,   
  2023, respectively                       46,249                     36,827   
   Total Liabilities    $               2,975,785  $               2,574,683   
                        -------------------------  -------------------------   
   
Equity:   
Preferred Stock,   
 $.0001 par value per   
 share, 4,000,000   
 shares authorized,   
 7,000 shares Series A   
 outstanding, at   
 stated liquidation   
 value of $25,000 per   
 share, at December   
 31, 2024 and December   
 31, 2023                                 175,000                    175,000   
Common stock, $.0001   
 par value,   
 180,000,000 shares   
 authorized,   
 107,248,705 and   
 100,519,355 shares   
 issued and   
 outstanding at   
 December 31, 2024 and   
 December 31, 2023,   
 respectively                                  10                         10   
Additional   
 paid-in-capital                        5,765,582                  5,354,120   
Dividends in excess of   
 net income                             (470,622)                  (346,473)   
Accumulated other   
 comprehensive income   
 (loss)                                    40,076                     16,554   
Total Equity - Agree   
 Realty Corporation     $               5,510,046  $               5,199,211   
                        -------------------------  -------------------------   
   Non-controlling   
    interest                                  615                        942   
   Total Equity         $               5,510,661  $               5,200,153   
                        -------------------------  -------------------------   
     Total Liabilities   
      and Equity        $               8,486,446  $               7,774,836   
                        =========================  =========================   
   
   
                               Agree Realty Corporation   
            Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Income   
                   ($ in thousands, except share and per share-data)   
                                      (Unaudited)   
   
                           Three months ended                Twelve months ended   
                              December 31,                       December 31,   
                   ----------------------------------  --------------------------------   
                         2024              2023              2024             2023   
                   ----------------  ----------------  ----------------  --------------   
Revenues   
 Rental Income        $     160,683     $     144,144     $     616,822     $   537,403   
 Other                           51                21               273              92   
   Total Revenues     $     160,734     $     144,165     $     617,095     $   537,495   
   
Operating   
Expenses   
 Real estate   
  taxes              $       13,525    $       10,663    $       46,882    $     40,092   
 Property   
  operating   
  expenses                    6,474             6,841            26,349          24,961   
 Land lease   
  expense                       367               412             1,618           1,664   
 General and   
  administrative              8,897             8,701            37,233          34,788   
 Depreciation and   
  amortization               56,566            47,257           206,987         176,277   
 Provision for   
  impairment                      -             2,665             7,224           7,175   
   Total   
    Operating   
    Expenses         $       85,829    $       76,539     $     326,293     $   284,957   
   
 Gain (loss) on   
  sale of assets,   
  net                           406             1,550            11,508           1,849   
 Gain (loss) on   
  involuntary   
  conversion,   
  net                            24                 -              (67)               -   
   
   Income from   
    Operations       $       75,335    $       69,176     $     302,243     $   254,387   
   
Other (Expense)   
Income   
 Interest   
  expense, net      $      (29,095)    $     (22,371)    $    (108,904)    $   (81,119)   
 Income and other   
  tax (expense)   
  benefit                   (1,075)             (709)           (4,306)         (2,910)   
 Other (expense)   
  income                        212                 5               799             189   
   
   Net Income        $       45,377    $       46,101     $     189,832     $   170,547   
   
 Less net income   
  attributable to   
  non-controlling   
  interest                      138               146               635             588   
                   ----------------  ----------------  ----------------  --------------   
   
   Net Income   
    Attributable   
    to Agree   
    Realty   
    Corporation      $       45,239    $       45,955     $     189,197     $   169,959   
   
 Less Series A   
  Preferred Stock   
  Dividends                   1,859             1,859             7,437           7,437   
                   ----------------  ----------------  ----------------  --------------   
   
   Net Income   
    Attributable   
    to Common   
    Stockholders     $       43,380    $       44,096     $     181,760     $   162,522   
                   ================  ================  ================  ==============   
   
 Net Income Per Share Attributable   
 to Common Stockholders   
   Basic           $           0.42  $           0.44  $           1.79  $         1.70   
   Diluted         $           0.41  $           0.44  $           1.78  $         1.70   
   
   
Other   
Comprehensive   
Income   
 Net Income          $       45,377    $       46,101     $     189,832     $   170,547   
Amortization of   
 interest rate   
 swaps                        (738)             (630)           (2,781)         (2,519)   
Change in fair   
 value and   
 settlement of   
 interest rate   
 swaps                       22,428          (16,165)            26,383         (4,501)   
 Total   
  Comprehensive   
  Income (Loss)              67,067            29,306           213,434         163,527   
 Less   
  comprehensive   
  income   
  attributable to   
  non-controlling   
  interest                      211                88               715             565   
                   ----------------  ----------------  ----------------  --------------   
   Comprehensive   
    Income   
    Attributable   
    to Agree   
    Realty   
    Corporation      $       66,856    $       29,218     $     212,719     $   162,962   
                   ================  ================  ================  ==============   
   
Weighted Average   
 Number of Common   
 Shares   
 Outstanding -   
 Basic                  103,336,203       100,279,279       101,099,252      95,191,409   
Weighted Average   
 Number of Common   
 Shares   
 Outstanding -   
 Diluted                104,698,851       100,397,096       101,876,304      95,437,412   
   
   
                            Agree Realty Corporation   
         Reconciliation of Net Income to FFO, Core FFO and Adjusted FFO   
               ($ in thousands, except share and per-share data)   
                                  (Unaudited)   
   
                       Three months ended              Twelve months ended   
                          December 31,                     December 31,   
                --------------------------------  ------------------------------   
                      2024             2023            2024            2023   
                ----------------  --------------  --------------  --------------   
   
Net Income       $        45,377    $     46,101     $   189,832     $   170,547   
Less Series A   
 Preferred   
 Stock   
 Dividends                 1,859           1,859           7,437           7,437   
                ----------------  --------------  --------------  --------------   
Net Income   
 attributable   
 to OP Common   
 Unitholders     $        43,518    $     44,242     $   182,395     $   163,110   
                ----------------  --------------  --------------  --------------   
Depreciation   
 of rental   
 real estate   
 assets                   38,397          31,119         137,835         115,617   
Amortization   
 of lease   
 intangibles -   
 in-place   
 leases and   
 leasing   
 costs                    17,652          15,611          67,128          58,967   
Provision for   
 impairment                    -           2,665           7,224           7,175   
(Gain) loss on   
 sale or   
 involuntary   
 conversion of   
 assets, net               (430)         (1,550)        (11,441)         (1,849)   
Funds from   
 Operations -   
 OP Common   
 Unitholders      $       99,137    $     92,087     $   383,141     $   343,020   
                ----------------  --------------  --------------  --------------   
Amortization   
 of above   
 (below)   
 market lease   
 intangibles,   
 net and   
 assumed   
 mortgage debt   
 discount,   
 net                       8,434           7,564          33,571          33,430   
Core Funds   
 from   
 Operations -   
 OP Common   
 Unitholders       $     107,571    $     99,651     $   416,712     $   376,450   
                ----------------  --------------  --------------  --------------   
Straight-line   
 accrued rent            (3,036)         (3,200)        (12,711)        (12,142)   
Stock based   
 compensation   
 expense                   2,812           2,158          10,805           8,338   
Amortization   
 of financing   
 costs and   
 original   
 issue   
 discounts                 1,629           1,186           5,988           4,403   
Non-real   
 estate   
 depreciation                517             527           2,024           1,693   
Adjusted Funds   
 from   
 Operations -   
 OP Common   
 Unitholders       $     109,493     $   100,322     $   422,818     $   378,742   
                ----------------  --------------  --------------  --------------   
   
Funds from   
 Operations   
 Per Common   
 Share and OP   
 Unit - Basic   $           0.96  $         0.92  $         3.78  $         3.59   
Funds from   
 Operations   
 Per Common   
 Share and OP   
 Unit -   
 Diluted        $           0.94  $         0.91  $         3.75  $         3.58   
   
Core Funds   
 from   
 Operations   
 Per Common   
 Share and OP   
 Unit - Basic   $           1.04  $         0.99  $         4.11  $         3.94   
Core Funds   
 from   
 Operations   
 Per Common   
 Share and OP   
 Unit -   
 Diluted        $           1.02  $         0.99  $         4.08  $         3.93   
   
Adjusted Funds   
 from   
 Operations   
 Per Common   
 Share and OP   
 Unit - Basic   $           1.06  $         1.00  $         4.17  $         3.96   
Adjusted Funds   
 from   
 Operations   
 Per Common   
 Share and OP   
 Unit -   
 Diluted        $           1.04  $         1.00  $         4.14  $         3.95   
   
Weighted   
 Average   
 Number of   
 Common Shares   
 and OP Units   
 Outstanding -   
 Basic               103,683,822     100,626,898     101,446,871      95,539,028   
Weighted   
 Average   
 Number of   
 Common Shares   
 and OP Units   
 Outstanding -   
 Diluted             105,046,470     100,744,715     102,223,923      95,785,031   
   
   
Additional   
supplemental   
disclosure   
Scheduled   
 principal   
 repayments     $            246  $          232  $          963  $          905   
Capitalized   
 interest                    473             288           1,599           1,957   
Capitalized   
 building   
 improvements              2,401           3,122          12,905           9,819   
 
```

Non-GAAP Financial Measures

Funds from Operations ("FFO" or "Nareit FFO")

FFO is defined by the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts, Inc. ("Nareit") to mean net income computed in accordance with GAAP, excluding gains (or losses) from sales of real estate assets and/or changes in control, plus real estate related depreciation and amortization and any impairment charges on depreciable real estate assets, and after adjustments for unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures. Historical cost accounting for real estate assets in accordance with GAAP implicitly assumes that the value of real estate assets diminishes predictably over time. Since real estate values instead have historically risen or fallen with market conditions, most real estate industry investors consider FFO to be helpful in evaluating a real estate company's operations. FFO should not be considered an alternative to net income as the primary indicator of the Company's operating performance, or as an alternative to cash flow as a measure of liquidity. Further, while the Company adheres to the Nareit definition of FFO, its presentation of FFO is not necessarily comparable to similarly titled measures of other REITs due to the fact that all REITs may not use the same definition.

Core Funds from Operations ("Core FFO") The Company defines Core FFO as Nareit FFO with the addback of (i) noncash amortization of acquisition purchase price related to above- and below- market lease intangibles and discount on assumed debt and (ii) certain infrequently occurring items that reduce or increase net income in accordance with GAAP. Management believes that its measure of Core FFO facilitates useful comparison of performance to its peers who predominantly transact in sale-leaseback transactions and are thereby not required by GAAP to allocate purchase price to lease intangibles. Unlike many of its peers, the Company has acquired the substantial majority of its net-leased properties through acquisitions of properties from third parties or in connection with the acquisitions of ground leases from third parties. Core FFO should not be considered an alternative to net income as the primary indicator of the Company's operating performance, or as an alternative to cash flow as a measure of liquidity. Further, the Company's presentation of Core FFO is not necessarily comparable to similarly titled measures of other REITs due to the fact that all REITs may not use the same definition.

Adjusted Funds from Operations ("AFFO")

AFFO is a non-GAAP financial measure of operating performance used by many companies in the REIT industry. AFFO further adjusts FFO and Core FFO for certain non-cash items that reduce or increase net income computed in accordance with GAAP. Management considers AFFO a useful supplemental measure of the Company's performance, however, AFFO should not be considered an alternative to net income as an indication of its performance, or to cash flow as a measure of liquidity or ability to make distributions. The Company's computation of AFFO may differ from the methodology for calculating AFFO used by other equity REITs, and therefore may not be comparable to such other REITs.

```
   
                      Agree Realty Corporation   
           Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures   
         ($ in thousands, except share and per-share data)   
                            (Unaudited)   
   
                                           Three months ended   
                                              December 31,   
                                    --------------------------------   
                                                  2024   
                                    --------------------------------   
   
 Mortgage notes payable, net         $                        42,210   
 Unsecured term loan, net                                    347,452   
 Senior unsecured notes, net                               2,237,759   
 Unsecured revolving credit   
  facility                                                   158,000   
 Total Debt per the   
  Consolidated Balance Sheet           $                   2,785,421   
                                    --------------------------------   
   
 Unamortized debt issuance   
  costs and discounts, net                                    26,483   
                                    --------------------------------   
 Total Debt                            $                   2,811,904   
                                    --------------------------------   
   
 Cash and cash equivalents                                   (6,399)   
 Net Debt                              $                   2,805,505   
                                    --------------------------------   
   
 Anticipated Net Proceeds from   
  Forward Equity Offerings                                 (919,909)   
                                    --------------------------------   
 Proforma Net Debt                     $                   1,885,596   
                                    --------------------------------   
   
 Net Income                          $                        45,377   
 Interest expense, net                                        29,095   
 Income and other tax expense                                  1,075   
 Depreciation of rental real   
  estate assets                                               38,397   
 Amortization of lease   
  intangibles - in-place   
  leases and leasing costs                                    17,652   
 Non-real estate depreciation                                    517   
 (Gain) loss on sale or   
  involuntary conversion of   
  assets, net                                                  (430)   
                                    --------------------------------   
 EBITDAre                             $                      131,683   
                                    --------------------------------   
   
 Run-Rate Impact of   
  Investment, Disposition and   
  Leasing Activity                  $                          4,055   
 Amortization of above (below)   
  market lease intangibles,   
  net                                                          8,350   
                                    --------------------------------   
 Recurring EBITDA                     $                      144,088   
                                    --------------------------------   
   
 Annualized Recurring EBITDA          $                      576,352   
                                    --------------------------------   
   
 Total Debt per the Consolidated                               15.5x   
  Balance Sheet to Annualized Net   
  Income   
                                    --------------------------------   
   
 Net Debt to Recurring EBITDA                                   4.9x   
                                    --------------------------------   
   
 Proforma Net Debt to                                           3.3x   
  Recurring EBITDA   
                                    --------------------------------   
 
```

Non-GAAP Financial Measures

Total Debt and Net Debt

The Company defines Total Debt as debt per the consolidated balance sheet excluding unamortized debt issuance costs, original issue discounts and debt discounts. Net Debt is defined as Total Debt less cash, cash equivalents and cash held in escrows. The Company considers the non-GAAP measures of Total Debt and Net Debt to be key supplemental measures of the Company's overall liquidity, capital structure and leverage because they provide industry analysts, lenders and investors useful information in understanding our financial condition. The Company's calculation of Total Debt and Net Debt may not be comparable to Total Debt and Net Debt reported by other REITs that interpret the definitions differently than the Company. The Company presents Net Debt on both an actual and proforma basis, assuming the net proceeds of the Forward Offerings (see below) are used to pay down debt. The Company believes the proforma measure may be useful to investors in understanding the potential effect of the Forward Offerings on the Company's capital structure, its future borrowing capacity, and its ability to service its debt.

Forward Offerings

The Company has 12,861,796 shares remaining to be settled under the ATM Forward Offerings. Upon settlement, the offerings are anticipated to raise net proceeds of approximately $919.9 million based on the applicable forward sale price as of December 31, 2024. The applicable forward sale price varies depending on the offering. The Company is contractually obligated to settle the offerings by certain dates between June 2025 and June 2026.

EBITDAre

EBITDAre is defined by Nareit to mean net income computed in accordance with GAAP, plus interest expense, income tax expense, depreciation and amortization, any gains (or losses) from sales of real estate assets and/or changes in control, any impairment charges on depreciable real estate assets, and after adjustments for unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures. The Company considers the non-GAAP measure of EBITDAre to be a key supplemental measure of the Company's performance and should be considered along with, but not as an alternative to, net income or loss as a measure of the Company's operating performance. The Company considers EBITDAre a key supplemental measure of the Company's operating performance because it provides an additional supplemental measure of the Company's performance and operating cash flow that is widely known by industry analysts, lenders and investors. The Company's calculation of EBITDAre may not be comparable to EBITDAre reported by other REITs that interpret the Nareit definition differently than the Company.

Recurring EBITDA

The Company defines Recurring EBITDA as EBITDAre with the addback of noncash amortization of above- and below- market lease intangibles, and after adjustments for the run-rate impact of the Company's investment and disposition activity for the period presented, as well as adjustments for non-recurring benefits or expenses. The Company considers the non-GAAP measure of Recurring EBITDA to be a key supplemental measure of the Company's performance and should be considered along with, but not as an alternative to, net income or loss as a measure of the Company's operating performance. The Company considers Recurring EBITDA a key supplemental measure of the Company's operating performance because it represents the Company's earnings run rate for the period presented and because it is widely followed by industry analysts, lenders and investors. Our Recurring EBITDA may not be comparable to Recurring EBITDA reported by other companies that have a different interpretation of the definition of Recurring EBITDA. Our ratio of net debt to Recurring EBITDA is used by management as a measure of leverage and may be useful to investors in understanding the Company's ability to service its debt, as well as assess the borrowing capacity of the Company. Our ratio of net debt to Recurring EBITDA is calculated by taking annualized Recurring EBITDA and dividing it by our net debt per the consolidated balance sheet.

Annualized Net Income Represents net income for the three months ended December 31, 2024, on an annualized basis.

```
   
                        Agree Realty Corporation   
                             Rental Income   
           ($ in thousands, except share and per share-data)   
                              (Unaudited)   
                       Three months ended        Twelve months ended   
                          December 31,               December 31,   
                    ------------------------  --------------------------   
                       2024         2023         2024         2023   
                    -----------  -----------  -----------  -----------   
Rental Income   
Source(1)   
 Minimum rents(2)   $   147,839  $   133,274  $   568,961  $   497,736   
 Percentage   
  rents(2)                   35            -        1,752        1,314   
 Operating cost   
  reimbursement(2)       18,123       15,151       66,634       59,307   
 Straight-line   
  rental   
  adjustments(3)          3,036        3,200       12,711       12,142   
 Amortization of   
  (above) below   
  market lease   
  intangibles(4)        (8,350)      (7,481)     (33,236)     (33,096)   
   Total Rental   
    Income          $   160,683  $   144,144  $   616,822  $   537,403   
                    ===========  ===========  ===========  ===========   
 
```

(1) The Company adopted Financial Accounting Standards Board Accounting Standards Codification ("FASB ASC") 842 "Leases" using the modified retrospective approach as of January 1, 2019. The Company adopted the practical expedient in FASB ASC 842 that alleviates the requirement to separately present lease and non-lease components of lease contracts. As a result, all income earned pursuant to tenant leases is reflected as one line, "Rental Income," in the consolidated statement of operations. The purpose of this table is to provide additional supplementary detail of Rental Income.

(2) Represents contractual rentals and/or reimbursements as required by tenant lease agreements, recognized on an accrual basis of accounting. The Company believes that the presentation of contractual lease income is not, and is not intended to be, a presentation in accordance with GAAP. The Company believes this information is frequently used by management, investors, analysts and other interested parties to evaluate the Company's performance.

(3) Represents adjustments to recognize minimum rents on a straight-line basis, consistent with the requirements of FASB ASC 842.

(4) In allocating the fair value of an acquired property, above- and below-market lease intangibles are recorded based on the present value of the difference between the contractual amounts to be paid pursuant to the leases at the time of acquisition and the Company's estimate of current market lease rates for the property.

View original content to download multimedia:https://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/agree-realty-corporation-reports-fourth-quarter-and-full-year-2024-results-302373962.html

SOURCE AGREE REALTY CORPORATION

/CONTACT: Peter Coughenour, Chief Financial Officer, Agree Realty Corporation, (248) 737-4190

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250211009842:0/)
