---
title: "Ashtead to Proceed With Proposed U.S. Listing Switch"
date: "2025-02-11 18:39:00"
summary: "(10:19 GMT) *Ashtead Group Intends to Proceed With Proposed Move to a U.S. Primary Listing(10:19 GMT) *Ashtead: Proposal Includes Insertion of New US Co to Be Named Sunbelt Rentals(10:20 GMT) *Ashtead Says Sunbelt Rentals Will Be Ultimate Parent Co(10:20 GMT) *Ashtead: Proposals Will Be Implemented by UK Scheme of Arrangement(10:20..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

**(10:19 GMT)** \*Ashtead Group Intends to Proceed With Proposed Move to a U.S. Primary Listing  
**(10:19 GMT)** \*Ashtead: Proposal Includes Insertion of New US Co to Be Named Sunbelt Rentals  
**(10:20 GMT)** \*Ashtead Says Sunbelt Rentals Will Be Ultimate Parent Co  
**(10:20 GMT)** \*Ashtead: Proposals Will Be Implemented by UK Scheme of Arrangement  
**(10:20 GMT)** \*Ashtead: Proposals Require 75% Shareholder Approval at EGM  
**(10:21 GMT)** \*Ashtead EGM To Take Place in June  
**(10:21 GMT)** \*Ashtead: Subject to Vote, Scheme of Arrangement Will Take Effect in 1Q 2026  
**(10:39 GMT)** Ashtead to Proceed With Proposed U.S. Listing Switch

By Ian Walker

Ashtead Group plans to proceed with a switch of its main listing to the U.S. as flagged in December, marking a further blow to the London bourse.

The FTSE 100-listed equipment rental company said Tuesday that it has discussed the rationale of a move with a wide variety of shareholders who are supportive of the plan.

As part of the move, Ashtead will create a new U.S. company to be named Sunbelt Rentals Holdings, for which current shareholders will hold shares.

Ashtead plans to hold a general meeting in June and if approved it expects the change to become effective in the first quarter of next year.

North America is its core growth market, which represented 98% of its operating profit for fiscal 2024, and its operational headquarters and management team are located in the U.S.

The proposed move makes Ashtead the latest company to shun the London Stock Exchange for a U.S. listing. Flutter Entertainment--which houses FanDuel, PokerStars, and Paddy Power among its brands--made New York its prime listing from May 31, 2024, while British chip maker Arm Holdings chose New York over London for its stock market return in September 2023.

German travel company TUI quit London in June and drugmaker Indivior switched its main listing to the U.S a month earlier, while retaining a secondary listing in the U.K. Just Eat Takeaway.com also left the London Exchange last year.

Shares were up 62.0 pence, or 1.2%, at 51.36 pounds in late morning European trading. They are currently up 3.4% over the past month but 18% lower over the past three months.

Write to Ian Walker at ian.walker@wsj.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250211002335:0/)
