---
title: "Hims & Hers Super Bowl Spot Draws Drug-Industry Backlash"
date: "2025-02-10 10:17:00"
summary: "By Megan GrahamTelehealth provider Hims &amp; Hers Health is defending its planned Super Bowl ad, which is styled as a political manifesto against weight-loss treatments priced \"for profits, not patients,\" after criticism from pharmaceutical companies and trade groups.Hims &amp; Hers last year began offering access to compounded semaglutide, a version..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Megan Graham

Telehealth provider Hims & Hers Health is defending its planned Super Bowl ad, which is styled as a political manifesto against weight-loss treatments priced "for profits, not patients," after criticism from pharmaceutical companies and trade groups.

Hims & Hers last year began offering access to compounded semaglutide, a version of the active ingredient in Novo Nordisk's Wegovy and Ozempic drugs, at a far lower price than those branded drugs. The Food and Drug Administration allows semaglutide to be compounded because it is considered to be in short supply.

The trade group Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America on Friday said the ad "misrepresents the safety and efficacy of their knockoff GLP-1 medicines" and "surfaces serious concerns about the lack of oversight of the compounding industry."

The Food and Drug Administration didn't immediately return a request for comment.

Novo Nordisk also criticized the ad, saying it fails to provide information about appropriate patient populations or risks and benefits of treatments.

Hims & Hers Health responded by saying that the company provides a telehealth platform and isn't a drug manufacturer.

"This is a clear attempt by industry groups to cancel an advertisement that directly calls out how they are part of a system that fails to prioritize the health of Americans," it said in a statement.

The Partnership for Safe Medicines, a group whose members include pharmacist and drug-industry trade groups, also called on Fox Corp. to withdraw the ad from the Super Bowl ad roster.

"This ad was subject to Fox's commercial clearance process and cleared to run during the game," a Fox spokesman said Sunday.

This item is part of a Wall Street Journal live coverage event. The full stream can be found by searching P/WSJL (WSJ Live Coverage).

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250209001241:0/)
