---
title: "Inside the Very Pink, Very Lucrative Phenomenon of LoveShackFancy — WSJ"
date: "2025-02-09 23:00:00"
summary: "By Rory Satran | Photography by Mark Peckmezian for WSJ. MagazineCARRIE BRADSHAW once had the most aspirational stoop in New York City. Then Rebecca Hessel Cohen renovated her West Village townhouse.For Halloween, the LoveShackFancy founder buries her perch in pink-and-white pumpkins, blush-colored roses and deeply unthreatening skeletons. At Christmas, or..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Rory Satran | Photography by Mark Peckmezian for WSJ. Magazine

CARRIE BRADSHAW once had the most aspirational stoop in New York City. Then Rebecca Hessel Cohen renovated her West Village townhouse.

For Halloween, the LoveShackFancy founder buries her perch in pink-and-white pumpkins, blush-colored roses and deeply unthreatening skeletons. At Christmas, or "Pinkmas," as she's called the holiday, it's festooned with a truckload of pink velvet bows, garlands and pink berries. On a recent December day, a tween walked by and surreptitiously snapped photos of the facade on her iPhone. A few minutes later, she walked back in the other direction and took some more.

Kids, teenagers, sorority girls and their moms devour every crumb of the saccharine confection that is LoveShackFancy, from the brand's signature ruffled dresses and miniskirts to dog beds, stationery and wallpaper. Prices range from $18 for a notebook to over $3,000 for an embellished evening gown. The business comprises 17 stores selling womenswear, kidswear, home goods and jewelry; sell-out collaborations with companies including Stanley, Pottery Barn Teen and Gap; a burgeoning beauty line at Sephora; and somewhere north of $100 million in sales (though the company would not confirm this figure).

But it's also a way of life, a pink empire with one childlike empress: Hessel Cohen.

"She really lives her brand," says Priya Shukla, senior vice president of global communications for Vera Wang and part of Hessel Cohen's inner circle. "She's completely living her own ideal fantasy."

Every aspect of the 42-year-old fashion entrepreneur's existence, all hyped on the 24/7 reality show that is her TikTok and Instagram, serves to sell that fantasy. We see her picture-perfect pink-swaddled townhouse; her Hamptons shabby-chic paradise; her worshipful real-estate-developer husband, Todd Cohen, and two silky-haired daughters, Scarlett, 11, and Stella, 9; her vacations to Paris, Aspen and St. Barts; and her pair of puffer-vested Maltipoos. Her French housekeeper told me it was a joy just setting the table for parties, because of the museum-quality china and linens, much of it 18th-century European ("It's like a dollhouse"). Even the recycling bins in the LoveShackFancy office are made from pink plastic.

In just over a decade, LoveShackFancy has built a world as immersive and immediately identifiable as some of the most enduring, family-owned fashion brands. Like the Versaces or the Cucinellis, Hessel Cohen and her family serve as the ultimate incarnation of her brand. But detractors cringe at the narrow, repetitive pinkness and the incessant promotional whirlwind.

Is she the next Real Housewife, or the next Ralph Lauren?

HESSEL COHEN grew up on 77th Street on the Upper East Side of Manhattan, five blocks from the iconic Ralph Lauren "mansion" flagship store. In her Nightingale-Bamford prep-school pinafore, she would visit the multifloor boutique with her mother, Nancy Hessel Weber, a longtime creative director at Seventeen. Their favorite section was the home floor, with its piles of preppy madras and ticking textiles. Hessel Cohen remembers thinking, "Oh, my gosh, I want to have a bed like this, with all these pillows."

Ralph Lauren, which has a market cap of roughly $15 billion, is the ne plus ultra of American lifestyle companies. Since its founding nearly 60 years ago, the brand's business has been bolstered by the marketing of Lauren himself, along with his wife, Ricky, his children, his dogs, their homes and their holiday traditions. (Like Hessel Cohen, Lauren is Jewish, but his brand embraces all holidays.) It's a worthy business strategy, but one that depends on a couple of rare qualities: creating a clear, imitable aesthetic that infiltrates every crevice of your life, and having the resources to make your life look like an advertisement — or at least be able to fake it till you make it.

Hessel Cohen's kingdom was created almost by accident. For her wedding at her family home in Bridgehampton, New York, in 2010, she couldn't find the exact bridesmaid dresses she wanted, so she made her own flowy halter gowns with the help of a seamstress. That experience inspired her to leave her editing job at Cosmopolitan to start the brand in 2013. She and Cohen, whose father, Martin Cohen, co-founded the publicly traded investment company Cohen & Steers, own the business jointly.

The brand's name came from a "Love Shack" sign her mother hung at her beach house. The "Fancy" was added when a British magazine crew were shooting at the home, and Hessel Weber found it cute how they said they "fancied" things. The name was already in the family lexicon when Hessel Cohen started her business. Now she sees the three words as three distinct parts of the brand: "Love" is your favorite pieces, and the love you share with your friends and family; "Shack" is the beachier, bohemian side; and "Fancy" is the moldings, the gilding, the glitz and the glam.

Many credit the impish and charming Mama Hessel Weber, a passionate flea-market scout, with planting the aesthetic seeds of LoveShackFancy. She dressed little Hessel Cohen in antique Victorian dresses and vintage dungarees: "It was like dressing up a doll," Hessel Weber says. She brought her daughter to the Seventeen fashion closet, on photo shoots and to see Betsey Johnson cartwheeling down the runway at her fashion shows. She outfitted their homes with finds from Paris's marchés aux puces and the Brimfield antique market in Massachusetts, and sundries from the twee-print-queen Cath Kidston in London. Her daughter is also a Brimfield devotee, she says, "but sometimes somebody else is buying it for her. That's the difference. I go and get the stuff."

Another tier in the LoveShackFancy aesthetic layer cake is an irrepressible girlishness, stoked by Hessel Cohen becoming the mother to two daughters. "When I had Scarlett, I was like, 'Oh, my gosh, you want to wear this tulle little skirt? I want to wear that tulle skirt, too. And you want to be a princess? I want to be a princess, too," says Hessel Cohen.

"If I had boys, I don't know if LoveShackFancy would exist," she says.

When she became a mother, Hessel Cohen became re-enamored with a storybook version of girlhood: Fancy Nancy books, Disney movies, lavish, just-so slumber parties. After the family's customary Nutcracker visit was stymied by the pandemic, Hessel Cohen invited friends over to their house in the Hamptons and they dressed up in real Nutcracker costumes.

Kay Thompson's Eloise books, about a girl who lives at the Plaza Hotel, are particularly resonant, because she and Todd also lived there for a few years around the time they were engaged. Although it wasn't all tea parties and Shirley Temples: Hessel Cohen remembers that an allegedly intoxicated Charlie Sheen was hospitalized after police found him in his trashed room at the hotel around the same time. She later threw her 40th birthday party at the Plaza — complete with burlesque dancers, 13 cakes, a smoke machine and a confetti drop. The Daily Front Row proclaimed: "Marie Antoinette could never!"

Another beloved hotel is the Ritz Paris, where she shows her LoveShackFancy collections during fashion week. Her family also vacations there. For Hessel Cohen's birthday, the hotel sent her logo teacups that she drinks her morning almond-milk latte from (rooms at the Ritz start around $2,000 per night). She named one of her Maltipoo dogs Ritzy after the hotel.

All of Hessel Cohen's enthusiasms are documented on her Instagram and TikTok pages, as well as the brand's social media accounts. "There definitely is no work-life cutoff, essentially," she says. Everything is fair game for content, unless one of her daughters protests, which is happening more and more with Scarlett, the eldest.

When asked what's off-limits to post on social media, she's stumped. "Oh, my gosh," she says, thinking for a while. "Collabs I'm not allowed to announce," she says.

The payoff for that kind of transparency is what she calls "an honest connection" with her fans, who call her by her nickname, Beck. "What you see is what you get, which is why I think it resonates so much."

"Everything is 'amazing' " in Hessel Cohen's world, says Hessel Weber, "and everybody wants to hear her say 'amazing' because that means she likes it and it's approved."

AFTER A HANDFUL of years bootstrapping the business at trunk shows around the Hamptons, Hessel Cohen opened the first LoveShackFancy store in Sag Harbor, New York, in 2018. "We had no idea what we were doing," says brand president Stacy Lilien. They cobbled together Restoration Hardware racks, LoveShackFancy pieces and vintage clothing and antiques with the help of Hessel Weber. It was an instant sensation, with a line to get in and people trying clothes on in the middle of the store.

"It was an 'Aha!' moment," says Lilien. After wholesaling the fledgling brand at department stores like Bergdorf Goodman and Saks Fifth Avenue, they could finally reveal the full LoveShackFancy visual experience.

Todd, who still runs his real-estate business, Icon Realty, with a partner, began working on LoveShackFancy more seriously early in the pandemic. Hessel Cohen, who initially resisted his help, soon realized she needed more support navigating the difficult time. "Every day was the scariest thing, and I needed to stay in my romantic pink world," says Hessel Cohen.

Going against the industrywide trend of prioritizing e-commerce over brick-and-mortar stores, LoveShackFancy has built a healthy retail business. Thanks in part to Todd's real-estate background, the brand has opened stores at a rapid clip in recent years. There are now 17, many of them in areas with a big prep-school presence (like Madison Avenue on the Upper East Side), or college towns with a Greek scene (Charleston, Nashville, Austin). Resort areas also do well; Palm Beach, Florida, where the Cohens vacation, is the top-selling store. Five more are planned for 2025: Aspen; Chicago; South Carolina's Kiawah Island; Washington, D.C.; and a pop-up in Northern California at Marin Country Mart. Todd says all the stores are profitable, and the brand now does 70 percent of its business direct-to-consumer.

LoveShackFancy fangirls congregate at the frilly, dreamy boutiques, gushing over "ribbon bars" where they can adorn their clothes with flair. The stores have hosted engagement proposals, bridal showers, sweet sixteens, book clubs and bat mitzvahs. Celebrity "girl dads" like Adam Sandler, Jerry Seinfeld and Mark Wahlberg have shopped there. Sacha Baron Cohen stopped by to shop for his daughters — and then asked the saleswoman if she was free to babysit. (Baron Cohen declined to comment.)

Another turning point in the business was the 2021 explosion of "Bama Rush." In viral TikTok videos, would-be sorority sisters at the University of Alabama and other schools filmed themselves rattling off the brands they were wearing to rush events. Some winners emerged: Kendra Scott, the Pants Store, Lululemon, Van Cleef & Arpels, Hermès and, perhaps most of all, LoveShackFancy.

Hessel Cohen capitalized on the new market by visiting college campuses. She transformed her Sag Harbor store this summer into a mock sorority house, "rushing" herself as a stunt.

Hessel Cohen traveled to the College of Charleston in 2024 to reveal a complete makeover of the Delta Delta Delta sorority house, co-sponsored by Pottery Barn Teen and LoveShackFancy. They painted the door pink (what else?), hung wallpaper, decorated a Pinkmas tree and made the beds with branded linens. In a TikTok video promoting the project, Hessel Cohen dances alone to "Love Shack" by the B-52's in the sorority house's dining room, set for a party with pink balloons: "Oh, my God, they're gonna love it!" she squeals.

"When she's connecting with us, it's not like she's connecting through this fake image of herself," says Kiley Mullen, a College of Charleston Tri-Delt who sleeps on LoveShackFancy sheets. "It's not this fake persona that she thinks is going to do well in the business world. It's truly just her wanting to have fun."

With her mostly LoveShackFancy wardrobe, physique toned by legendary taskmaster Isaac Boots (who's also trained Kelly Ripa) and casual mannerisms ("You guys..."), Hessel Cohen is fully comfortable in a role many designers and founders eschew: star. She signed with Hollywood talent behemoth Creative Artists Agency in 2023; one could easily picture her hosting a makeover or home décor show.

Although Hessel Cohen says she has turned down the chance to appear on The Real Housewives of New York City, a 2024 viral video of her home on Caleb Simpson's popular Instagram house-tour channel again stoked rumors that she would join the cast. The video, which has been liked over two million times, was featured on the Today show and catapulted the Cohens to a new level of fame. Todd was deemed "America's sweetheart"; commenters likened Hessel Cohen to a real-life Carrie Bradshaw; and the Cut complained "The LoveShackFancy Founder's House Makes Me Feel Poor."

The house, whose painstaking renovation was chronicled in an Architectural Digest story, features a "party barn" in an original carriage house, with French 19th-century chandeliers that can move up and down with motorized pulleys. Most of the furniture is antique, with the exception of a few custom Rose Uniacke pieces. The pièce de résistanceis Hessel Cohen's boudoir, a floor-through sanctuary including a bathtub cut from one block of marble and a jewel box of a closet that she hears inspired Glinda's pinkalicious wardrobe in the 2024 Wicked movie.

After all, she says, "I am Glinda!"

LOVESHACKFANCY'S girly maximalism is not for everyone.

"It's completely off-zeitgeist," says Ana Andjelic, author of The Business of Aspiration and Hitmakers: How Brands Influence Culture.

But the brand has tapped into a latent femininity in the culture that was clearly ready to be mined. Because it's unique in the market, it's become its own ecosystem: a "participatory social communal brand," Andjelic says. She compares it to Gwyneth Paltrow's Goop, another brand based on the taste, influence and whims of a single woman.

Like Goop, LoveShackFancy has been critiqued as an exclusive playground of privilege, for blondes by a blonde. A 2022 Business Insider story called the company a "pretty, skinny, rich-girl dreamworld," and alleged a failure to respond to calls for diversity both within the company and in its branding.

"We have so many different types of girls who associate as part of a LoveShackFancy brand," says Hessel Cohen. She brushes off the article: "It's not even something that gets brought up at all anymore since then, to be honest."

Priya Shukla, Hessel Cohen's friend, says Hessel Cohen has "always had people around her who don't look like her, who aren't like her." She says the critiques may come from a place of jealousy. "I think people look at her and they think, 'She's pretty, she's wealthy, she's famous — she can't possibly be nice,' but she just is."

Andjelic warns that an aesthetic as defined as LoveShackFancy's can be "a prison." She sees the stream of collaborations as a way to break out of that mold and try something new.

Lilien, the brand's president, says collaborations account for eight percent of the company's business, and that they are indeed intended more as a marketing exercise than strictly a revenue play. In 2024, the brand did 16 collaborations, and 19 are planned for 2025. Some deals are structured as a flat fee, while others involve royalties. The real gold rush here is new-customer acquisition. With the Stanley mug collaboration, 65 percent of the buyers were new to LoveShackFancy.

The brand is betting that its very niche world can become very, very big. Beauty, currently five percent of the business, is a potential growth area as well as a pet project of Todd's (he looks to Tom Ford, who sold his business to Estée Lauder for $2.8 billion in 2022, as the "north star"). Along with the slew of store openings and collaborations planned, there's worldwide expansion in the works. LoveShackFancy recently partnered with the Brama Group, which has also worked with Missoni and Staud, to expand distribution in Europe and the Middle East.

Hessel Cohen says she'd love to open a boutique hotel, as well as a coffee shop "that's all pink, a little retro, but it's super fun and it has great music and girls are in cute outfits.

"I'm like, 'Todd, if you don't want to do it, I'm finding an investor.' "

Write to Rory Satran at rory.satran@wsj.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250209000358:0/)
