---
title: "InvenTrust Properties Corp. Reports 2024 Fourth Quarter and Full Year Results"
date: "2025-02-12 05:20:00"
summary: "InvenTrust Properties Corp. Reports 2024 Fourth Quarter and Full Year ResultsDOWNERS GROVE, Ill.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--February 11, 2025--InvenTrust Properties Corp. (\"InvenTrust\" or the \"Company\") today reported financial and operating results for the fourth quarter and full year ended December 31, 2024 and provided initial guidance for 2025. For the three months ended..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

InvenTrust Properties Corp. Reports 2024 Fourth Quarter and Full Year Results

DOWNERS GROVE, Ill.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--February 11, 2025--

InvenTrust Properties Corp. ("InvenTrust" or the "Company") today reported financial and operating results for the fourth quarter and full year ended December 31, 2024 and provided initial guidance for 2025. For the three months ended December 31, 2024 and 2023, the Company reported Net Income of $9.8 million, or $0.13 per diluted share, compared to Net Income of $2.9 million, or $0.04 per diluted share, respectively. For the years ended December 31, 2024 and 2023, the Company reported Net Income of $13.7 million, or $0.19 per diluted share, compared to Net Income of $5.3 million, or $0.08 per diluted share, respectively.

Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2024 Highlights:

* Nareit FFO for the fourth quarter of $0.45 per diluted share, and $1.78 per diluted share for the full year
* Core FFO for the fourth quarter of $0.43 per diluted share, and $1.73 per diluted share for the full year
* Same Property Net Operating Income ("NOI") growth of 7.1% for the fourth quarter and 5.0% for the full year
* Leased Occupancy as of December 31, 2024 of 97.4%, a fourth quarter sequential increase of 40 basis points and a full year increase of 120 basis points
* Executed 52 leases in the fourth quarter, totaling approximately 232,000 square feet of GLA, of which 189,000 was executed at a blended comparable lease spread of 15.5%, and 210 leases for the full year, totaling approximately 1,323,000 square feet of GLA, of which 1,087,000 was executed at a blended comparable lease spread of 11.3%
* Raised $7.8 million of net proceeds under the at-the-market equity offering program (the "ATM Program") during the fourth quarter
* Acquired four properties in the fourth quarter, totaling approximately 614,000 square feet, including two properties totaling 214,000 square feet in the Charleston, South Carolina market
* The Board of Directors approved a 5% increase to the Company's dividends starting in April 2025

"InvenTrust's strong fourth-quarter and full-year performance reflects our continued focus on operational excellence and strategic growth," said DJ Busch, President and CEO of InvenTrust. "Our impressive Same Property NOI growth, all-time high leased occupancy, and solid leasing spreads underscore the quality of our portfolio and our ability to drive long-term value. We believe our disciplined acquisition approach in key Sun Belt markets positions us for sustained success in 2025 and beyond. Additionally, the Board's decision to increase our dividend by 5% for 2025 demonstrates confidence in our strategy and commitment to shareholder returns. We look forward to building on this momentum in the years ahead."

NET INCOME

* Net Income for the three months ended December 31, 2024 was $9.8 million, or $0.13 per diluted share, compared to $2.9 million, or $0.04 per diluted share, for the same period in 2023.
* Net Income for the year ended December 31, 2024 was $13.7 million, or $0.19 per diluted share, compared to $5.3 million, or $0.08 per diluted share, for the same period in 2023.

NAREIT FFO

* Nareit FFO for the three months ended December 31, 2024 was $34.9 million, or $0.45 per diluted share, as compared to $30.8 million, or $0.45 per diluted share, for the same period in 2023.
* Nareit FFO for the year ended December 31, 2024 was $126.7 million, or $1.78 per diluted share, as compared to $115.5 million, or $1.70 per diluted share, for the same period in 2023.

CORE FFO

* Core FFO for the three months ended December 31, 2024 was $33.5 million, or $0.43 per diluted share, compared to $27.8 million, or $0.41 per diluted share, for the same period in 2023.
* Core FFO for the year ended December 31, 2024 was $122.8 million, or $1.73 per diluted share, compared to $111.9 million, or $1.65 per diluted share, for the same period in 2023.

SAME PROPERTY NOI

* Same Property NOI for the three months ended December 31, 2024 was $45.9 million, a 7.1% increase, compared to the same period in 2023.
* Same Property NOI for the year ended December 31, 2024 was $162.6 million, a 5.0% increase, compared to the same period in 2023.

DIVIDEND

* For the quarter ending December 31, 2024, the Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash distribution of $0.2263 per share, paid on January 15, 2025.
* The Board of Directors approved an increase of 5% to the Company's cash dividend. The new annual rate of $0.9508 will be reflected in the next quarterly dividend of $0.2377 expected to be paid in April 2025.

PORTFOLIO PERFORMANCE & INVESTMENT ACTIVITY

* As of December 31, 2024, the Company's Leased Occupancy was 97.4%.   
   --   
   Anchor Leased Occupancy, which includes spaces greater than or equal to 10,000 square feet, was 99.8% and Small Shop Leased Occupancy was 93.3%. Anchor Leased Occupancy remained at an all-time high and Small Shop Leased Occupancy increased by 130 basis points on a sequential basis compared to the previous quarter.   
   --   
   Leased to Economic Occupancy spread of 210 basis points, which equates to approximately $6.3 million of base rent on an annualized basis.
* Blended re-leasing spreads for comparable new and renewal leases signed in the fourth quarter and full year were 15.5% and 11.3%, respectively.
* Annualized Base Rent PSF ("ABR") as of December 31, 2024 was $20.07, an increase of 3.0% compared to the same period in 2023. Anchor Tenant ABR PSF was $12.86 and Small Shop ABR PSF was $33.39 for the fourth quarter.
* During the fourth quarter, the Company funded four acquisitions using cash on hand:   
   --   
   Stonehenge Village in Midlothian, VA for a gross acquisition price of $62.1 million. The 214,000 square foot community center is 100% occupied and is anchored by Wegmans.   
   --   
   The Forum in Fort Myers, FL for a gross acquisition price of $41.4 million. The 186,000 square foot power center is 96.1% occupied and is shadow anchored by Target.   
   --   
   Market at Mill Creek in Mount Pleasant, SC for a gross acquisition price of $27.3 million. The 80,000 square foot neighborhood center is 100% occupied and is anchored by Lowes Foods.   
   --   
   Nexton Square in Summerville, SC, for a gross acquisition price of $54.7 million. The 134,000 square foot lifestyle center is 96.9% occupied.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL STRUCTURE

* During the three months ended December 31, 2024, the Company raised $7.8 million of net proceeds, after $0.1 million in commissions, under the ATM Program, through the issuance of 254,082 shares of common stock at a weighted average price of $30.96 per share.
* On October 23, 2024, the Company entered into a third amendment to the Amended Revolving Credit Agreement, which provides for, among other things, an increase in the revolving commitments thereunder from $350.0 million to $500.0 million and an extension of the maturity date to January 15, 2029, with one six-month extension option.
* InvenTrust had $587.4 million of total liquidity, as of December 31, 2024 comprised of $87.4 million of cash and cash equivalents and $500.0 million of availability under its Revolving Credit Facility.
* InvenTrust has $35.9 million of debt maturing in 2025 and $200.0 million of debt maturing in 2026.
* The Company's weighted average interest rate on its debt as of December 31, 2024 was 4.03% and the weighted average remaining term was 3.3 years.

FULL YEAR 2025 OUTLOOK AND INITIAL GUIDANCE

The Company has provided initial 2025 guidance, as summarized in the table below.

```
   
(Unaudited, dollars in   
thousands, except per share   
amounts)                          Initial 2025 Guidance(1)(2)    2024 Actual   
                                -------------------------------  -----------   
   Net Income per diluted   
    share                          $0.27       --      $0.33        $0.19   
   Nareit FFO per diluted   
    share                          $1.83       --      $1.89        $1.78   
   Core FFO per diluted share   
    (3)                            $1.79       --      $1.83        $1.73   
   Same Property NOI ("SPNOI")   
    Growth                         3.50 %      --      4.50%        5.0%   
   General and administrative     $34,250      --     $35,750      $33,172   
   Interest expense, net (4)      $31,000      --     $31,500      $34,697   
   Net investment activity (5)             $100,000              $213,518   
   
   
(1)   The Company's initial 2025 guidance excludes projections related to   
      gains or losses on dispositions, gains or losses on debt transactions,   
      and depreciation, amortization, and straight-line rent adjustments   
      related to acquisitions.   
(2)   The Company's initial 2025 guidance includes an expectation of   
      uncollectibility, reflected as 75-100 basis points of expected total   
      revenue.   
(3)   Core FFO per diluted share excludes amortization of market-lease   
      intangibles and inducements, debt extinguishment charges, straight-line   
      rent adjustments, depreciation and amortization of corporate assets, and   
      non-operating income and expense.   
(4)   Interest expense, net, excludes amortization of debt discounts and   
      financing costs, and expected interest income of approximately $2.4   
      million.   
(5)   Net investment activity represents anticipated acquisition activity less   
      disposition activity.   
 
```

In addition to the foregoing, the Company's initial 2025 Guidance incorporates a number of other assumptions that are subject to change and may be outside the control of the Company. If actual results vary from these assumptions, the Company's expectations may change. There can be no assurances that InvenTrust will achieve these results.

The following table provides a reconciliation of the range of the Company's 2025 estimated net income per diluted share to estimated Nareit FFO and Core FFO per diluted share:

```
   
(Unaudited)                                        Low End    High End   
                                                   -------  ------------   
Net income per diluted share                       $ 0.27    $   0.33   
  Depreciation and amortization of real estate   
   assets                                            1.56        1.56   
                                                    -----       -----   
      Nareit FFO per diluted share                   1.83        1.89   
      Amortization of market-lease intangibles   
       and inducements, net                         (0.04)      (0.05)   
      Straight-line rent adjustments, net           (0.04)      (0.05)   
      Amortization of debt discounts and   
       financing costs                               0.04        0.04   
                                                    -----       -----   
        Core FFO per diluted share                 $ 1.79    $   1.83   
                                                    =====       =====   
 
```

This press release does not include a reconciliation of forward-looking SPNOI to forward-looking GAAP Net Income because the Company is unable, without making unreasonable efforts, to provide a meaningful or reasonably accurate calculation or estimation of certain reconciling items which could be significant to the Company's results.

CONFERENCE CALL INFORMATION

```
   
Date:                        Wednesday, February 12, 2025   
Time:                        10:00 a.m. ET   
Dial-in:                     (833) 470-1428 / Access Code: 625026   
Webcast & Replay Link:       https://events.q4inc.com/attendee/413285106   
Webcast Archive:             https://www.inventrustproperties.com/investor-rel   
                             ations/   
 
```

A webcast replay will be available shortly after the conclusion of the earnings call using the webcast link above.

NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES

This Press Release includes certain financial measures and other terms that are not in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles ("GAAP") that management believes are helpful in understanding the Company's business. These measures should not be considered as alternatives to, or more meaningful than, net income (calculated in accordance with GAAP) or other GAAP financial measures, as an indicator of financial performance and are not alternatives to, or more meaningful than, cash flow from operating activities (calculated in accordance with GAAP) as a measure of liquidity. Non-GAAP performance measures have limitations as they do not include all items of income and expense that affect operations, and accordingly, should always be considered as supplemental financial results to those calculated in accordance with GAAP. The Company's computation of these non-GAAP performance measures may differ in certain respects from the methodology utilized by other REITs and, therefore, may not be comparable to similarly titled measures presented by such other REITs. Investors are cautioned that items excluded from these non-GAAP performance measures are relevant to understanding and addressing financial performance. A reconciliation of the Company's non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financials measures are included herein.

SAME PROPERTY NOI or SPNOI

Information provided on a same property basis includes the results of properties that were owned and operated for the entirety of both periods presented. NOI excludes general and administrative expenses, depreciation and amortization, other income and expense, net, impairment of real estate assets, gains (losses) from sales of properties, gains (losses) on extinguishment of debt, interest expense, net, equity in earnings (losses) from unconsolidated entities, lease termination income and expense, and GAAP rent adjustments such as amortization of market lease intangibles, amortization of lease incentives, and straight-line rent adjustments ("GAAP Rent Adjustments"). The Company bifurcates NOI into Same Property NOI and NOI from other investment properties based on whether the retail properties meet the Company's Same Property criteria. NOI from other investment properties includes adjustments for the Company's captive insurance company.

NAREIT FUNDS FROM OPERATIONS (NAREIT FFO) and CORE FFO

The Company's non-GAAP measure of Nareit Funds from Operations ("Nareit FFO"), based on the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts ("Nareit") definition, is net income (or loss) in accordance with GAAP, excluding gains (or losses) resulting from dispositions of properties, plus depreciation and amortization and impairment charges on depreciable real property. Core Funds From Operations ("Core FFO") is an additional supplemental non-GAAP financial measure of the Company's operating performance. In particular, Core FFO provides an additional measure to compare the operating performance of different REITs without having to account for certain remaining amortization assumptions within Nareit FFO and other unique revenue and expense items which some may consider not pertinent to measuring a particular company's on-going operating performance. Adjustments for the Company's unconsolidated joint venture reflect the Company's proportionate share of the joint venture's Nareit FFO and Core FFO on the same basis.

EARNINGS BEFORE INTEREST, TAXES, DEPRECIATION, AND AMORTIZATION (EBITDA) and ADJUSTED EBITDA

The Company's non-GAAP measure of EBITDA is net income (or loss) in accordance with GAAP, excluding interest expense, net, income tax expense (or benefit), and depreciation and amortization. Adjusted EBITDA is an additional supplemental non-GAAP financial measure of the Company's operating performance. In particular, Adjusted EBITDA provides an additional measure to compare the operating performance of different REITs without having to account for certain remaining amortization assumptions within EBITDA, certain gains or losses remaining within EBITDA, and other unique revenue and expense items which some may consider not pertinent to measuring a particular company's on-going operating performance. Adjustments for the Company's unconsolidated joint venture reflect the Company's proportionate share of the joint venture's EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA on the same basis.

NET DEBT-TO-ADJUSTED EBITDA

Net Debt-to-Adjusted EBITDA is Net Debt divided by trailing twelve month Adjusted EBITDA.

FORMER JOINT VENTURE

On January 18, 2023, the Company acquired the four remaining retail properties from its unconsolidated joint venture, IAGM Retail Fund I, LLC ("IAGM"), a joint venture partnership between the Company and PGGM Private Real Estate Fund ("PGGM"), in which it held a 55% ownership share. In connection with the foregoing, IAGM adopted a liquidation plan on January 11, 2023. On December 15, 2023, IAGM was fully liquidated.

```
   
Financial Statements   
   
Consolidated Balance Sheets   
In thousands, except share amounts   
   
                                               As of December 31   
                                          ----------------------------   
                                              2024          2023   
                                           ----------    ----------   
Assets                                    (unaudited)   
Investment properties   
   Land                                   $   712,827   $   694,668   
   Building and other improvements          2,116,092     1,956,117   
   Construction in progress                     9,951         5,889   
                                           ----------    ----------   
      Total                                 2,838,870     2,656,674   
      Less accumulated depreciation          (511,969)     (461,352)   
                                           ----------    ----------   
         Net investment properties          2,326,901     2,195,322   
Cash, cash equivalents and restricted   
 cash                                          91,221        99,763   
Intangible assets, net                        137,420       114,485   
Accounts and rents receivable                  36,131        35,353   
Deferred costs and other assets, net           44,277        42,408   
                                           ----------    ----------   
         Total assets                     $ 2,635,950   $ 2,487,331   
                                           ==========    ==========   
   
Liabilities   
Debt, net                                 $   740,415   $   814,568   
Accounts payable and accrued expenses          46,418        44,583   
Distributions payable                          17,512        14,594   
Intangible liabilities, net                    42,897        30,344   
Other liabilities                              28,703        29,198   
                                           ----------    ----------   
         Total liabilities                    875,945       933,287   
                                           ----------    ----------   
Commitments and contingencies   
   
Stockholders' Equity   
Preferred stock, $0.001 par value,   
40,000,000 shares authorized, none   
outstanding                                        --            --   
Common stock, $0.001 par value,   
 146,000,000 shares authorized,   
 77,450,794 shares issued and   
 outstanding as of December 31, 2024 and   
 67,807,831 shares issued and   
 outstanding as of December 31, 2023               77            68   
Additional paid-in capital                  5,730,367     5,468,728   
Distributions in excess of accumulated   
 net income                                (3,984,865)   (3,932,826)   
Accumulated comprehensive income               14,426        18,074   
                                           ----------    ----------   
         Total stockholders' equity         1,760,005     1,554,044   
                                           ----------    ----------   
         Total liabilities and   
          stockholders' equity            $ 2,635,950   $ 2,487,331   
                                           ==========    ==========   
   
   
Financial Statements   
   
Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Income (Loss)   
In thousands, except share and per share amounts, unaudited   
   
                             Three Months Ended               Year Ended   
                                 December 31                  December 31   
                         --------------------------  ----------------------------   
                             2024          2023          2024          2023   
                          ----------    ----------    ----------    ----------   
Income   
   Lease income, net     $    70,759   $    64,332   $   272,440   $   257,146   
   Other property   
    income                       473           390         1,534         1,450   
   Other fee income               --            --            --            80   
                          ----------    ----------    ----------    ----------   
Total income                  71,232        64,722       273,974       258,676   
                          ----------    ----------    ----------    ----------   
   
Operating expenses   
   Depreciation and   
    amortization              28,856        28,091       113,948       113,430   
   Property operating         12,376        11,776        43,413        42,832   
   Real estate taxes           9,209         7,448        36,441        34,809   
   General and   
    administrative             8,404         8,408        33,172        31,797   
                          ----------    ----------    ----------    ----------   
Total operating   
 expenses                     58,845        55,723       226,974       222,868   
   
Other (expense) income   
   Interest expense,   
    net                       (8,356)       (9,697)      (37,100)      (38,138)   
   Loss on   
    extinguishment of   
    debt                          --           (15)           --           (15)   
   Impairment of real   
    estate assets                 --            --        (3,854)           --   
   Gain on sale of   
    investment   
    properties, net            3,523            --         3,857         2,691   
   Equity in losses of   
    unconsolidated   
    entities                      --          (110)           --          (557)   
   Other income and   
    expense, net               2,245         3,713         3,755         5,480   
                          ----------    ----------    ----------    ----------   
Total other (expense)   
 income, net                  (2,588)       (6,109)      (33,342)      (30,539)   
                          ----------    ----------    ----------    ----------   
   
Net income               $     9,799   $     2,890   $    13,658   $     5,269   
                          ==========    ==========    ==========    ==========   
   
Weighted-average common   
 shares outstanding,   
 basic                    77,222,248    67,563,908    70,394,448    67,531,898   
Weighted-average common   
 shares outstanding,   
 diluted                  78,014,472    68,090,912    71,010,568    67,813,180   
   
Net income per common   
 share - basic           $      0.13   $      0.04   $      0.19   $      0.08   
Net income per common   
 share - diluted         $      0.13   $      0.04   $      0.19   $      0.08   
   
Comprehensive income   
(loss)   
   Net income            $     9,799   $     2,890   $    13,658   $     5,269   
      Unrealized gain   
       (loss) on   
       derivatives             6,459        (7,268)        9,019         6,228   
      Reclassification   
       to net income          (2,721)       (3,786)      (12,667)      (14,875)   
                          ----------    ----------    ----------    ----------   
   Comprehensive income   
    (loss)               $    13,537   $    (8,164)  $    10,010   $    (3,378)   
                          ==========    ==========    ==========    ==========   
   
   
Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Measures   
In thousands   
   
Same Property NOI   
   
                   Three Months Ended        Year Ended   
                       December 31           December 31   
                   ------------------  ----------------------   
                     2024      2023      2024       2023   
                    ------    ------    -------    -------   
Income   
   Minimum base   
    rent           $42,591   $40,817   $152,502   $148,304   
   Real estate   
    tax   
    recoveries       8,223     6,615     29,463     28,184   
   Common area   
    maintenance,   
    insurance,   
    and other   
    recoveries       8,098     8,245     28,788     27,799   
   Ground rent   
    income           4,563     4,520     14,674     14,760   
   Short-term and   
    other lease   
    income           1,845     1,799      4,496      4,323   
   Provision for   
    uncollectible   
    billed rent   
    and   
    recoveries        (234)     (704)      (266)    (1,046)   
   Other property   
    income             440       381      1,305      1,241   
                    ------    ------    -------    -------   
      Total   
       income       65,526    61,673    230,962    223,565   
   
Operating   
Expenses   
   Property   
    operating       10,831    11,718     36,426     37,736   
   Real estate   
    taxes            8,817     7,138     31,981     30,981   
                    ------    ------    -------    -------   
Total operating   
 expenses           19,648    18,856     68,407     68,717   
   
      Same   
       Property   
       NOI         $45,878   $42,817   $162,555   $154,848   
                    ======    ======    =======    =======   
   
   
Net Income to Same Property NOI   
   
                    Three Months Ended        Year Ended   
                        December 31           December 31   
                    ------------------  ----------------------   
                      2024      2023      2024       2023   
                     ------    ------    -------    -------   
Net income          $ 9,799   $ 2,890   $ 13,658   $  5,269   
Adjustments to   
reconcile to   
non-GAAP metrics:   
   Other income   
    and expense,   
    net              (2,245)   (3,713)    (3,755)    (5,480)   
   Equity in   
    losses of   
    unconsolidated   
    entities             --       110         --        557   
   Interest   
    expense, net      8,356     9,697     37,100     38,138   
   Loss on   
    extinguishment   
    of debt              --        15         --         15   
   Gain on sale of   
    investment   
    properties,   
    net              (3,523)       --     (3,857)    (2,691)   
   Impairment of   
   real estate   
   assets                --        --      3,854         --   
   Depreciation   
    and   
    amortization     28,856    28,091    113,948    113,430   
   General and   
    administrative    8,404     8,408     33,172     31,797   
   Other fee   
    income               --        --         --        (80)   
   Adjustments to   
    NOI (a)          (1,492)   (1,500)    (7,548)    (7,528)   
                     ------    ------    -------    -------   
   NOI               48,155    43,998    186,572    173,427   
      NOI from   
       other   
       investment   
       properties    (2,277)   (1,181)   (24,017)   (18,579)   
                     ------    ------    -------    -------   
      Same   
       Property   
       NOI          $45,878   $42,817   $162,555   $154,848   
                     ======    ======    =======    =======   
   
(a) Adjustments to NOI include lease termination income and   
expense and GAAP Rent Adjustments.   
   
   
Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Measures, continued   
 In thousands, except share and per share amounts   
   
Nareit FFO and Core FFO   
   
The following table presents a reconciliation of Net Income to Nareit FFO and   
Core FFO Attributable to Common Shares and Dilutive Securities, and provides   
additional information related to its operations:   
   
                           Three Months Ended               Year Ended   
                               December 31                  December 31   
                       --------------------------  ----------------------------   
                           2024          2023          2024          2023   
                        ----------    ----------    ----------    ----------   
Net income             $     9,799   $     2,890   $    13,658   $     5,269   
   Depreciation and   
    amortization of   
    real estate   
    assets                  28,616        27,864       113,055       112,578   
   Impairment of real   
   estate assets                --            --         3,854            --   
   Gain on sale of   
    investment   
    properties, net         (3,523)           --        (3,857)       (2,691)   
   Unconsolidated   
    joint venture   
    adjustments (a)             --            --            --           342   
                        ----------    ----------    ----------    ----------   
      Nareit FFO   
       Applicable to   
       Common Shares   
       and Dilutive   
       Securities           34,892        30,754       126,710       115,498   
      Amortization of   
       market lease   
       intangibles   
       and   
       inducements,   
       net                    (740)         (626)       (2,804)       (3,343)   
      Straight-line   
       rent   
       adjustments,   
       net                    (748)         (857)       (3,400)       (3,349)   
      Amortization of   
       debt discounts   
       and financing   
       costs                   661           827         2,403         4,113   
      Depreciation   
       and   
       amortization   
       of corporate   
       assets                  240           227           893           852   
      Non-operating   
       income and   
       expense, net   
       (b)                    (758)       (2,612)       (1,033)       (1,821)   
      Unconsolidated   
       joint venture   
       adjusting   
       items, net   
       (c)                      --            80            --           (92)   
                        ----------    ----------    ----------    ----------   
         Core FFO   
          Applicable   
          to Common   
          Shares and   
          Dilutive   
          Securities   $    33,547   $    27,793   $   122,769   $   111,858   
                        ==========    ==========    ==========    ==========   
   
Weighted average   
 common shares   
 outstanding - basic    77,222,248    67,563,908    70,394,448    67,531,898   
Dilutive effect of   
 unvested restricted   
 shares (d)                792,224       527,004       616,120       281,282   
                        ----------    ----------    ----------    ----------   
Weighted average   
 common shares   
 outstanding -   
 diluted                78,014,472    68,090,912    71,010,568    67,813,180   
   
   Net income per   
    diluted share      $      0.13   $      0.04   $      0.19   $      0.08   
   Nareit FFO per   
    diluted share      $      0.45   $      0.45   $      1.78   $      1.70   
   Core FFO per   
    diluted share      $      0.43   $      0.41   $      1.73   $      1.65   
   
   
(a)   Reflects the Company's share of adjustments for IAGM's Nareit FFO on the   
      same basis as InvenTrust.   
(b)   Reflects items which are not pertinent to measuring on-going operating   
      performance, such as miscellaneous and settlement income, and basis   
      difference recognition arising from acquiring the four remaining   
      properties of IAGM in 2023.   
(c)   Reflects the Company's share of adjustments for IAGM's Core FFO on the   
      same basis as InvenTrust.   
(d)   For purposes of calculating non-GAAP per share metrics, the Company   
      applies the same denominator used in calculating diluted earnings per   
      share in accordance with GAAP.   
   
   
Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Measures, continued   
In thousands   
   
EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA   
   
The following table presents a reconciliation of Net Income to   
EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA, and provides additional information   
related to its operations:   
   
                        Three Months Ended        Year Ended   
                            December 31           December 31   
                        ------------------  ----------------------   
                          2024      2023      2024       2023   
                         ------    ------    -------    -------   
Net income              $ 9,799   $ 2,890   $ 13,658   $  5,269   
   Interest expense,   
    net                   8,356     9,697     37,100     38,138   
   Income tax expense       140       129        543        517   
   Depreciation and   
    amortization         28,856    28,091    113,948    113,430   
   Unconsolidated   
    joint venture   
    adjustments (a)          --        --         --        417   
                         ------    ------    -------    -------   
     EBITDA              47,151    40,807    165,249    157,771   
       Impairment of   
       real estate   
       assets                --        --      3,854         --   
       Gain on sale of   
        investment   
        properties,   
        net              (3,523)       --     (3,857)    (2,691)   
       Amortization of   
        market-lease   
        intangibles   
        and   
        inducements,   
        net                (740)     (626)    (2,804)    (3,343)   
       Straight-line   
        rent   
        adjustments,   
        net                (748)     (857)    (3,400)    (3,349)   
       Non-operating   
        income and   
        expense, net   
        (b)                (758)   (2,612)    (1,033)    (1,821)   
       Unconsolidated   
        joint venture   
        adjusting   
        items, net   
        (c)                  --        80         --       (108)   
                         ------    ------    -------    -------   
         Adjusted   
          EBITDA        $41,382   $36,792   $158,009   $146,459   
                         ======    ======    =======    =======   
   
   
(a)   Reflects the Company's share of adjustments for IAGM's EBITDA on the   
      same basis as InvenTrust.   
(b)   Reflects items which are not pertinent to measuring on-going operating   
      performance, such as miscellaneous and settlement income, and basis   
      difference recognition arising from acquiring the four remaining   
      properties of IAGM in 2023.   
(c)   Reflects the Company's share of adjustments for IAGM's Adjusted EBITDA   
      on the same basis as InvenTrust.   
   
   
Financial Leverage Ratios   
Dollars in thousands   
   
The following table presents the calculation of net debt and Net   
Debt-to-Adjusted EBITDA:   
   
                                                  As of December 31   
                                             ---------------------------   
                                                   2024        2023   
                                                 --------    --------   
Net Debt:   
  Outstanding Debt, net                       $   740,415   $ 814,568   
    Less: Cash and cash equivalents               (87,395)    (96,385)   
                                                 --------    --------   
      Net Debt                                $   653,020   $ 718,183   
                                                 ========    ========   
   
Net Debt-to-Adjusted EBITDA (trailing 12   
months):   
      Net Debt                                $   653,020   $ 718,183   
Adjusted EBITDA                                   158,009     146,459   
                                                 --------    --------   
  Net Debt-to-Adjusted EBITDA                         4.1x          4.9x   
 
```

About InvenTrust Properties Corp.

InvenTrust Properties Corp. (the "Company," "IVT," or "InvenTrust") is a premier Sun Belt, multi-tenant essential retail REIT that owns, leases, redevelops, acquires and manages grocery-anchored neighborhood and community centers as well as high-quality power centers that often have a grocery component. Management pursues the Company's business strategy by acquiring retail properties in Sun Belt markets, opportunistically disposing of retail properties, and maintaining a flexible capital structure. A trusted, local operator bringing real estate expertise to its tenant relationships, IVT has built a strong reputation with market participants across its portfolio. For more information, please visit www.inventrustproperties.com.

The enclosed information should be read in conjunction with the Company's filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"), including, but not limited to, the Company's Form 10-Qs filed quarterly and Form 10-Ks filed annually. Additionally, the enclosed information does not purport to disclose all items required under GAAP. The information provided in this press release is unaudited and includes non-GAAP measures (as discussed herein), and there can be no assurance that the information will not vary from the final information in the Company's Form 10-K for the year-ended December 31, 2024. IVT may, but assumes no obligation to, update information in this press release.

Forward-Looking Statements Disclaimer

Forward-Looking Statements in this press release, or made during the earnings call, which are not historical facts, are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are based on the current beliefs and expectations of InvenTrust's management and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements. Any statements made in this press release that are not statements of historical fact, including statements about our beliefs and expectations, are forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements include information concerning possible or assumed future results of operations, including our guidance and descriptions of our business plans and strategies. These statements often include words such as "may," "should, " "could," "would," "expect," "intend," "plan," "seek," "anticipate," "believe," "estimate," "target," "project," "predict," "potential," "continue," "likely," "will," "forecast," "outlook," "guidance," "suggest," and variations of these terms and similar expressions, or the negative of these terms or similar expressions.

The following factors, among others, could cause actual results, financial position and timing of certain events to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements: interest rate movements; local, regional, national and global economic performance; the impact of inflation on the Company and on its tenants; competitive factors; the impact of e-commerce on the retail industry; future retailer store closings; retailer consolidation; retailers reducing store size; retailer bankruptcies; government policy changes; and any material market changes and trends that could affect the Company's business strategy. For further discussion of factors that could materially affect the outcome of management's forward-looking statements and IVT's future results and financial condition, see the Risk Factors included in the Company's most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K, as updated by any subsequent Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, in each case as filed with the SEC. InvenTrust intends that such forward-looking statements be subject to the safe harbors created by Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, except as may be required by applicable law.

IVT cautions you not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements, which are made as of the date of this press release. IVT undertakes no obligation to update publicly any of these forward-looking statements to reflect actual results, new information or future events, changes in assumptions or changes in other factors affecting forward-looking statements, except to the extent required by applicable laws. If IVT updates one or more forward-looking statements, no inference should be drawn that IVT will make additional updates with respect to those or other forward-looking statements.

Availability of Information on InvenTrust Properties Corp.'s Website and Social Media Channels

Investors and others should note that InvenTrust routinely announces material information to investors and the marketplace using U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission filings, press releases, public conference calls, webcasts and the InvenTrust investor relations website. The Company uses these channels as well as social media channels (e.g., the InvenTrust X account (x.com/inventrustprop); and the InvenTrust LinkedIn account (linkedin.com/company/inventrustproperties) as a means of disclosing information about the Company's business to colleagues, investors, and the public. While not all of the information that the Company posts to the InvenTrust investor relations website or on the Company's social media channels is of a material nature, some information could be deemed to be material. Accordingly, the Company encourages investors, the media and others interested in InvenTrust to review the information that it shares on inventrustproperties.com/investor-relations and on the Company's social media channels.

View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20250211966998/en/

CONTACT: Dan Lombardo

Vice President of Investor Relations

630-570-0605

dan.lombardo@inventrustproperties.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250211010806:0/)
