---
title: "Why Kendrick Lamar's Halftime Show is Must-See TV"
date: "2025-02-10 04:09:00"
summary: "By Anne SteeleWhen the Chiefs and the Eagles retreat to their locker rooms during halftime at Super Bowl LIX, another rivalry will take the stage. Fans and critics alike await the moment Apple Music Super Bowl Halftime Show headliner Kendrick Lamar performs his smash hit \"Not Like Us,\" a Drake..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Anne Steele

When the Chiefs and the Eagles retreat to their locker rooms during halftime at Super Bowl LIX, another rivalry will take the stage. Fans and critics alike await the moment Apple Music Super Bowl Halftime Show headliner Kendrick Lamar performs his smash hit "Not Like Us," a Drake diss track at the center of a lawsuit against the rappers' shared label.

Drake filed a defamation suit against Universal Music Group earlier this month, saying the song falsely accuses him of being a pedophile.

"Not Like Us" has streamed over a billion times on Spotify alone and took home five Grammy Awards last week, including the top categories record and song of the year. Could the halftime show add juice to the lawsuit?

"It's a moment of maximum exposure," says music attorney Jordan Bromley, who leads the entertainment group at Manatt, Phelps & Phillips. "It would potentially skyrocket the damages."

That said, Bromley doesn't think the case has merit. "We're all scratching our heads over here as to what validity of the claim might be."

Lamar, a Pulitzer Prize-winning rapper from Compton, Calif., known for complex songwriting with biting social commentary and sharp observation of street culture, also appeared as part of the 2022 halftime show alongside rappers Dr. Dre, Snoop Dogg, Mary J. Blige and Eminem.

R&B singer SZA will join Lamar in this year's halftime show.

This item is part of a Wall Street Journal live coverage event. The full stream can be found by searching P/WSJL (WSJ Live Coverage).

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250209000420:0/)
