---
title: "Chinese Battery Giant CATL Applies for Hong Kong Listing"
date: "2025-02-12 09:16:00"
summary: "(00:46 GMT) *CATL: Has Applied to List on Hong Kong Exchange on Feb. 11(01:16 GMT) Chinese Battery Giant CATL Applies for Hong Kong ListingBy Sherry QinBattery giant Contemporary Amperex Technology has applied for a secondary listing on Hong Kong, joining the ranks of Chinese companies looking to tap the city's..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

**(00:46 GMT)** \*CATL: Has Applied to List on Hong Kong Exchange on Feb. 11  
**(01:16 GMT)** Chinese Battery Giant CATL Applies for Hong Kong Listing

By Sherry Qin

Battery giant Contemporary Amperex Technology has applied for a secondary listing on Hong Kong, joining the ranks of Chinese companies looking to tap the city's fundraising markets.

The world's largest maker of electric-vehicle batteries submitted its application to the Hong Kong Stock Exchange on Tuesday, the exchange's website showed.

CATL had announced the plan in December, saying it wants to list in Hong Kong to advance its global expansion strategy and improve its competitiveness.

A growing number of prominent Chinese companies have been looking to Hong Kong for secondary listings as the city's initial public offering market rebounds from a prolonged period of muted activity.

Home-appliance maker Midea Group raised nearly $4 billion in Hong Kong's largest listing last year in September, while delivery giant S.F. Holding raised nearly $730 million in a listing in November.

CATL's Shenzhen-listed shares are down 5.3% so far this year after jumping 63% in 2024. It was added to a Pentagon list of businesses with alleged ties to the Chinese military last month, an inclusion the company has said was a mistake.

Tech-related Chinese companies have been under the spotlight after homegrown artificial-intelligence startup DeepSeek touted its AI model as being on par with OpenAI's but at a fraction of the cost.

Write to Sherry Qin at sherry.qin@wsj.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250211013071:0/)
