---
title: "Global Forex and Fixed Income Roundup: Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-10 10:47:00"
summary: "The latest Market Talks covering FX and Fixed Income. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.2147 ET - JGBs fall in price terms in the Tokyo session. Bank of Japan policy board member Naoki Tamura's comments last week and possible wage increases have bolstered confidence that the BOJ..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The latest Market Talks covering FX and Fixed Income. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.

2147 ET - JGBs fall in price terms in the Tokyo session. Bank of Japan policy board member Naoki Tamura's comments last week and possible wage increases have bolstered confidence that the BOJ should continue to raise rates, says Christopher Wong of OCBC's FX and Rates Strategy in a note. Several Japanese companies have signaled their intention to raise wages by over 5% this year and domestic bank earnings this year have exceeded expectations so far, Wong says. "These anecdotal evidence points to another year of solid wage increase and meets the pre-requisite for BOJ to continue with hiking rates," Wong adds. The 10-year JGB yield rises 2bps to 1.320%, the highest intraday level since April 2011. (ronnie.harui@wsj.com)

2129 ET - The dollar is likely to trade in a range between Y150.50 and Y152.80 this week, with a technical support seen at around Y148.65 in the near term, says Sony Financial Group analyst Maki Ogawa. The yen is likely to remain on solid footing amid expectations for additional Bank of Japan rate increases, Ogawa says. Some market players expect the BOJ to raise its policy rate as soon as in May. Meanwhile, the Federal Reserve could still cut rates this year as wage-led inflation is unlikely to accelerate again, Ogawa adds. USD/JPY is changing hands at 152.00. (megumi.fujikawa@wsj.com)

2113 ET - China's latest PPI data does little to improve the outlook for producer prices. The producer price index remained in contraction for a 28th consecutive month in January, declining on year and missing both market and Barclays economists' expectations. Declines were observed across the key segments, including mining, raw materials and manufacturing, the economists note. On an on-month basis, the PPI fell for a second straight month after a brief increase, weighed down by softer industrial demand during the Lunar New Year holiday season. The economists don't expect a rebound anytime soon, projecting that the PPI will stay in deflation throughout 2025. (fabiana.negrinochoa@wsj.com)

2102 ET - China CPI beat market expectations in January, but is likely to post a deep decline in February, Citigroup analysts say in a note. They cite a high base from the same period a year earlier when the Lunar New Year fell in February versus in late January this year. "The next few months could see a very bumpy trajectory for CPI. The post-CNY February could see a quick softening of prices with seasonal demand declining," says the investment bank. While there could be a recovery in March, that will hinge on consumer demand, it adds. (singaporeeditors@dowjones.com)

2052 ET - China's consumer price inflation is likely to stay low for longer as holiday boosts fade, Barclays economists say. Headline CPI rose in January, likely in part due to the timing of the Lunar New Year, when goods and services prices tend to rise, Ying Zhang and others say. What's more, at 0.5% the print is still well below the average level of 3% when LNY also fell in late January, they add. Core CPI also remained subdued by historical standards. The economists see 2025 CPI inflation at 0.4% given tariff hikes, structural headwinds and the absence of developed markets-like demand-side stimulus. A U.S.-China trade war would, on balance, have a deflationary effect, they expect, as pressure on exports would exacerbate China's overcapacity issues. (fabiana.negrinochoa@wsj.com)

2046 ET - The U.S. dollar strengthens against most other G-10 and Asian currencies in the morning session. U.S. President Trump said he plans to impose 25% tariffs Monday on imports of steel and aluminum, which could spur demand for the greenback as a safe-haven asset. The USD Index has maintained its recovery, analysts at CIMB Treasury and Markets Research say in a report. The upcoming tariffs are likely to focus on the European Union given its relatively high trade surplus with the U.S., as well as the region's higher tariffs against U.S. exports, the analysts add. The USD Index is 0.3% higher at 108.36; USD/JPY gains 0.5% to 152.11. (ronnie.harui@wsj.com)

2037 ET - Continued uncertainty around Trump trade tariffs has investors on edge, but Kenanga IB analysts think the direct impact on Malaysia looks limited. The country contributes only about 2% to the U.S. trade deficit, Peter Kong and his team say in a note. Local manufacturers, exporters and tech firms could face some fallout near term, with the analysts estimating that a 5% drop in U.S.-related revenue among the stocks it covers would affect earnings by a maximum of 4%. Any ensuing weakness may present buying opportunities, they add. If tariffs align with regional import duties, Malaysia could be even less affected, easing pressure on exports and supporting market sentiment, they reckon.(yingxian.wong@wsj.com)

1932 ET - JGB futures edge higher in the morning Tokyo session, with the Japanese government bond market likely to be supported by safe-haven demand. President Trump said that he plans to impose 25% tariffs Monday on imports of steel and aluminum, Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities' fixed income strategists note. This could induce a risk-off mood and might be a buying incentive, the strategists say in a commentary. The 10-year JGB futures are 0.05 yen higher at 140.10 yen. (ronnie.harui@wsj.com)

1915 ET - Japanese stocks are lower as uncertainty about higher borrowing costs continues. Also weighing on the market are concerns about trade friction between the U.S. and its trading partners. Trading-house stocks are leading the declines. Mitsubishi Corp. is down 2.1% and Itochu is 2.2% lower. USD/JPY is at 151.72, compared with 151.62 as of Friday's Tokyo stock market close. Investors are closely watching developments over U.S. tariffs and domestic corporate earnings. The Nikkei Stock Average is down 0.4% at 38647.60. (kosaku.narioka@wsj.com; @kosakunarioka)

1901 ET - There are some economists that continue to warn that a cut in interest rates by the Reserve Bank of Australia next week would amount to a bad policy error. Warren Hogan at Judo Bank is key among them, arguing that a consumer recovery is well underway, while business conditions have improved. PMI readings are also rising while input prices for firms are rising, he says. Meanwhile, credit growth is improving, while the Australian dollar is weak. The RBA should be cautious over the months ahead, he adds. (james.glynn@wsj.com; @JamesGlynnWSJ)

1847 ET - Next week's policy meeting at the Reserve Bank of Australia will be among the tensest in living memory. While the case to cut interest rates is strong due to falling core inflation, it's not yet overwhelming given the strength of hiring and evidence that consumer spending is in slow recovery. But the RBA board will be highly conscious of the political consequences of both cutting or not cutting, feeling it is damned to attract waves of criticism. With polls showing support for the ruling Labor Party is fragile at best as voters feel the sting of rising living costs, the RBA's verdict could be key to the election due before mid-May. (james.glynn@wsj.com; @JamesGlynnWSJ)

1843 ET - Japanese stocks may fall as concerns about higher borrowing costs persist. Nikkei futures are down 0.8% at 38520 on the SGX. USD/JPY is at 151.54, compared with 151.62 as of Friday's Tokyo stock market close. Expectations have grown lately for further Bank of Japan rate increases and the Fed to slow its rate cuts. Investors are focusing on any developments over U.S. tariffs as well as domestic corporate earnings. The Nikkei Stock Average fell 0.7% to 38787.02 on Friday. (kosaku.narioka@wsj.com)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250209001298:0/)
