---
title: "Global Commodities Roundup: Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-14 13:15:00"
summary: "The latest Market Talks covering Commodities. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.0346 GMT - Iron ore futures are higher in Asian trade. While fundamentals of the black metal are solid, market sentiment is weak due to a lack of strong demand, Nanhua Futures analysts write in a..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The latest Market Talks covering Commodities. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.

0346 GMT - Iron ore futures are higher in Asian trade. While fundamentals of the black metal are solid, market sentiment is weak due to a lack of strong demand, Nanhua Futures analysts write in a note. Analysts at Everbright Futures note that current inventory levels of iron ore remain high and additional tariffs on steel and aluminum from the U.S. are weighing on sentiment in the short term. Investors should keep an eye on geopolitical tensions and macro news, they say. The most-traded iron-ore contract on the Dalian Commodity Exchange is up 0.6% at CNY810.5/ton.(jiahui.huang@wsj.com; @ivy\_jiahuihuang)

0257 GMT - Palm oil prices rise in early Asian trading, tracking overnight gains in soybean oil on the Chicago Board of Trade. The Malaysian Palm Oil Council expects the country's palm oil inventory to remain tight in February due to weak production, stable consumption ahead of Ramadan, and potential demand recovery from India. The MPOC expects palm oil prices to rise to 4,850/ton ringgit in the coming weeks, supported by higher Indian imports and strengthening rival soybean and sunflower oil prices. The Bursa Malaysia Derivatives contract for April delivery is higher by 33 ringgit to 4,587 ringgit/ton. (yingxian.wong@wsj.com)

0154 GMT - Copper edges higher in early Asian trade. Prices rose recently due to risk-on sentiment on the back of the prospect of peace talks between Russia and Ukraine, ANZ Research analysts say in a note. Copper is widely used in the manufacturing and construction sectors. The red metal also continues to shrug off an uncertain economic backdrop dominated by U.S. tariff news and continued sluggishness in China's property sector, they write. The three-month LME copper contract is 0.2% higher at $9,501.00/ton.(amanda.lee@wsj.com)

2336 GMT - Gold edges higher in the early morning Asian session, supported by prospects of more U.S. tariffs which could spur safe-haven demand for the precious metal. President Trump on Thursday ordered federal agencies to explore how to adjust U.S. tariffs to match those of other countries. This is raising prospects of a global trade war, ANZ Research analysts say in a research report. Demand for gold has surged as investors seek to protect themselves against the impact of such a damaging economic event, the analysts say. Spot gold is 0.1% higher at $2,930.92/oz. (ronnie.harui@wsj.com)

2037 GMT - Livestock futures on the CME finish mixed — with live cattle futures closing up 0.4% to $1.96475 a pound, while lean hog futures close down 1.3% to 93.15 cents a pound. Cattle futures appear to have found a short-term bottom, this after hitting an all-time record high of $2.07 a pound two weeks ago. Resumed imports of Mexican cattle are a pressure point for cattle futures, says Steiner Consulting Group in a note, this after they were banned due to an outbreak of New World screwworm infecting Mexican cattle. This is one reason that the beef production outlook for 2025 was revised higher by the USDA in this week's Wasde report, says Steiner. (kirk.maltais@wsj.com)

1923 GMT [Dow Jones]--The perceived frontrunner to become Canada's Liberal Party leader and next prime minister, Mark Carney, says there could be a national election as early as mid-March, after party members pick a new leader. Political analysts believe there likely will be an election in the spring, as the opposition parties have vowed to take down the minority Liberal government when parliament resumes March 24. Recent polling shows momentum for the Liberals, with the Conservative Party lead narrowing. Carney says any decision will reflect where things stand with the Trump administration's tariff threats. "If parliament needs to be recalled for certain reasons, it will be. If it makes sense to get a strong mandate at that point, that is what will follow," says Carney, the former Canadian and UK central banker. (paul.vieira@wsj.com)

1915 GMT [Dow Jones]--U.S. natural-gas futures rise for a fourth consecutive session as weather forecasts for the next week turn colder, and LNG feedgas flows rise. The EIA reported a 100 Bcf withdrawal from storage for last week, which although smaller than the five-year average was at the high end of analyst expectations. Drawdowns for this week and next "will be critical in determining the trajectory of storage this year, with greater-than-expected withdrawals having the potential to increase pressure on storage-fillers in the injection season which could drive up prices," Gelber & Associates says in a note. The Nymex front month settles up 1.8% at $3.628/mmBtu, after hitting $3.786/mmBtu earlier.(anthony.harrup@wsj.com)

1903 GMT [Dow Jones]--Crude futures shake off most of their early losses and settle slightly lower with the aid of a modestly positive IEA report in which the Paris-based agency raised its oil demand growth estimate for this year and lowered its expected supply surplus. "Trump/Putin headlines around ending the war in Ukraine, and Hamas/Israel efforts to save the ceasefire in Gaza drilled crude oil to multi-week lows earlier in the session," says Mizuho's Robert Yawger, but "the barrel managed to counterpunch effectively." President Trump's order to study reciprocal trade tariffs, when many expected immediate effect, "seemingly kicks the can down the street on a what could have been a nasty little crude oil demand destruction event," Yawger adds. WTI settles down 0.1% at $71.29 a barrel, and Brent slips 0.2% to $75.02 a barrel. (anthony.harrup@wsj.com)

1842 GMT - Growing global demand for U.S. ethanol is positioning the industry for continued success, but policy uncertainly clouds the market outlook, CoBank said. U.S. ethanol exports hit record levels last year, as domestic producers shipped more than 1.9 billion gallons abroad, CoBank said. Biofuel inclusion or blending rate policies in foreign markets will likely determine if strong exports will continue, CoBank said. The market may also be impacted by policy uncertainty at home and abroad. Jacqui Fatka, farm supply and biofuels economist with CoBank, said currently, the best opportunity to increase ethanol demand in 2025 remains in the export market. CoBank is a cooperative bank serving industries across rural America. (stephen.nakrosis@wsj.com)

1829 GMT - Wood products company West Fraser Timber wants to be smart about how it approaches tariffs, which includes being up to date with policy. On an analyst call, executives say the company is taking a number of actions to prepare for potential tariffs, including being "policy-current," and having multiple plans to adapt to any scenario, such as tit-for-tat tariffs. However, executives say they come from a position of strength thanks to a strong balance sheet and liquidity approaching C$1.7 billion that "provides a shock absorber for potential economic issues that may unfold in the face of looming tariffs and trade wars, while still allowing us to pursue cost improvement objectives and the return of surplus capital," they say. (adriano.marchese@wsj.com)

1749 GMT - 2024 was a banner year for U.S. ethanol exports, with 1.91 billion gallons shipped out of the U.S., according to data from the Renewable Fuels Association. This is expected to continue in 2025, says agricultural lender CoBank in a note, but there are risk factors that could derail the trend. The firm says buyers like Canada, Colombia, and the European Union will decide if ethanol is in for another big export year, although Trump tariff announcements could complicate things. "Shifting political sentiment abroad could result in lower ethanol inclusion rates and imports from domestic producers," says the firm, adding that changing regulations in these countries may also change their demand for ethanol. (kirk.maltais@wsj.com)

1632 GMT - Though it's early in the year, 2025 is showing signs of improvement for the bottom lines of U.S. farmers, says Deere on its F1Q earnings call. Officials say that they're seeing pricing pressures that farmers grappled with last year easing, which may provide a new spark for Deere sales. "On the input side, farmers are continuing to see a decline in input costs for the third consecutive year," says Deere's Josh Beal during the call, adding that government assistance coming from the American Relief Act of 2025 will also support farmers. "This assistance will offset some of the margin decline farmers saw in 2024, while potentially helping to relieve concerns around macro risk and high interest rates." (kirk.maltais@wsj.com)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250214000140:0/)
