---
title: "These Stocks Are Moving the Most Today: Trade Desk, AppLovin, Intel, Tesla, Robinhood, Deere, MGM, West Pharma, and More — Barrons.com"
date: "2025-02-14 01:20:00"
summary: "By Joe WoelfelStocks were rising Thursday even as U.S. inflation at the wholesale level remained hot in January, a day after data showed consumer prices rose more than expected to start the year. President Donald Trump is expected to announce further details of his tariff plans later in the session.These..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Joe Woelfel

Stocks were rising Thursday even as U.S. inflation at the wholesale level remained hot in January, a day after data showed consumer prices rose more than expected to start the year. President Donald Trump is expected to announce further details of his tariff plans later in the session.

These stocks were moving Thursday:

Cisco Systems rose 4.2% after the networking giant reported fiscal second-quarter earnings and revenue that beat Wall Street expectations. Product orders in the period rose 29% from a year earlier, and Cisco posted artificial-intelligence infrastructure orders of more than $350 million. "As AI becomes more pervasive, we are well positioned to help our customers scale their network infrastructure, increase their data capacity requirements, and adopt best-in-class AI security," said CEO Chuck Robbins. Cisco also boosted its fiscal-year revenue outlook, saying it expects revenue of $56 billion to $56.5 billion, up from prior guidance of $55.3 billion to $56.3 billion.

AppLovin soared 36% after the app-monetization company reported fourth-quarter earnings of $1.73 a share on revenue that rose 44% from a year earlier to $1.37 billion. Analysts had been expecting profit of $1.25 a share on revenue of $1.26 billion. Advertising revenue in the period jumped 73% to $999.5 million. AppLovin said it expects first-quarter revenue of between $1.36 billion and $1.39 billion, better than estimates of $1.32 billion.

Robinhood Markets was up 17% after the online discount brokerage posted fourth-quarter earnings of $1.01 a share, up from 3 cents a year earlier and well ahead of analysts' estimates of 42 cents. Revenue jumped 115% to $1.01 billion and also beat expectations. Transaction-based revenue soared more than 200% to $672 million, primarily driven by a jump of more than 700% in cryptocurrencies revenue to $358 million.

Advertising-technology company Trade Desk tumbled 32% after fourth-quarter revenue of $741 million missed consensus of $759 million. A reorganization negatively impacted the results. The company guided for first-quarter revenue of at least $575 million, below expectations of $582 million.

Deere was down 3.9%. The agricultural equipment maker reported fiscal first-quarter earnings of $3.19 a share, down from from $6.23 a year earlier, as worldwide net sales and revenue fell 30% to $8.51 billion. Net sales were $6.81 billion in the quarter, down from $10.5 billion a year earlier. The company expects sales at its production and precision agriculture division to fall 15% to 20% in the current fiscal year.

Intel rose 6.5%. The stock jumped 7.2% on Wednesday and has gained nearly 18% over the past three sessions. Intel shares received a boost earlier this week when Vice President JD Vance said at the AI Action Summit in Paris that the Trump administration was looking to relax regulations to enable rapid innovation of AI chips in the United States.

Reddit posted better-than-expected fourth-quarter earnings and revenue but shares of the social-media platform were falling 8.4% trading as user growth missed forecasts. Daily active unique visitors rose 39% to 101.7 million but were short of the 103.1 million expected by Wall Street. The company said it experienced "volatility" with traffic from a change to a Google search algorithm but that traffic since has recovered.

Fastly dropped 24% after posting a fourth-quarter loss that was wider than a year earlier and issuing weak guidance for the first quarter and full year. The cloud-computing company said it expects an adjusted loss in 2025 of 9 cents to 15 cents a share versus analysts' estimates for profit of 3 cents.

Fourth-quarter revenue at hotel and casino operator MGM Resorts fell 1% to $4.35 billion but beat Wall Street estimates of $4.27 billion. Adjusted earnings in the period were 45 cents a share, beating forecasts of 32 cents. The stock rose 14% as MGM said demand has been strong so far in 2025.

Tesla was up 3.2% in trading Thursday. The stock snapped a five-day losing streak on Wednesday. Shares of the electric-vehicle maker recently have been pressured by CEO Elon Musk's political activities at the Department of Government Efficiency, his bid for OpenAI, self-driving competition from China's BYD, weaker-than-expected fourth-quarter earnings, and h0tter-than-expected inflation data.

GE HealthCare Technologies was up 5.8% after the medical imaging company reported better-than-expected fourth-quarter earnings and gave solid guidance for 2025.

Dutch Bros jumped 26% after the coffee chain's fourth-quarter earnings topped Wall Street expectations and said it anticipates 2025 revenue of $1.56 billion to $1.58 billion, better than estimates of $1.53 billion.

Crocs jumped 19% after posting better-than-expected earnings in the fourth quarter and saying it expects revenue to grow in 2025. Crocs brands sales rose 4% to $762 million in the fourth quarter, while Heydude revenue was flat.

Meta Platform s, the parent company of Facebook and Instagram, was down 0.5% to $721.53. It extended its record winning streak to 18 sessions on Wednesday, rising 0.8% to finish at an all-time closing high of $725.38.

Earnings reports are expected later Thursday from Applied Materials, Palo Alto Networks, Airbnb, Coinbase Global, DexCom, Twilio, DraftKings, and Roku.

Write to Joe Woelfel at joseph.woelfel@barrons.com

This content was created by Barron's, which is operated by Dow Jones & Co. Barron's is published independently from Dow Jones Newswires and The Wall Street Journal.

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250213004896:0/)
