---
title: "Idaho Housing and Finance Association Plans to Sell $250M of Mortgage Bonds"
date: "2025-02-12 07:37:00"
summary: "By Josh BeckermanThe Idaho Housing and Finance Association plans to sell $250 million of single-family mortgage bonds, with proceeds slated for purposes including the purchase of mortgage-backed securities in connection with its Single Family Mortgage Program.The 2025 Series A bonds will be federally taxable, and include $52.5 million of serial..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Josh Beckerman

The Idaho Housing and Finance Association plans to sell $250 million of single-family mortgage bonds, with proceeds slated for purposes including the purchase of mortgage-backed securities in connection with its Single Family Mortgage Program.

The 2025 Series A bonds will be federally taxable, and include $52.5 million of serial bonds with maturities ranging from 2025 through 2037, according to a document posted Tuesday on MuniOS. The sale will include four term bonds, maturing in 2040, 2045, 2049 and 2065. The 2065 bond will be the largest at $89.3 million.

The securities will be available for delivery on March 25. The bonds are special obligations of the association, and are secured by a pledge of revenue and assets derived from the proceeds of the bonds, including mortgage loans and mortgage-backed securities.

Idaho Housing and Finance Association is a self-supporting organization formed in 1972. As of Dec. 31, it has purchased about 480,700 mortgage loans secured by single-family homes. It has provided permanent financing for about 7,230 dwelling units and 102 multi-family developments, according to the preliminary official statement.

The IHFA expects the bonds to receive a Aa1 rating from Moody's.

RBC Capital Markets is the lead underwriter.

Write to Josh Beckerman at josh.beckerman@wsj.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250211012867:0/)
