---
title: "Ams-Osram Shares Soar After Revenue Beat, Bullish Outlook"
date: "2025-02-11 17:06:00"
summary: "By Maitane SardonShares in Ams-Osram jumped after the company posted fourth-quarter revenue and profitability above the midpoint of its guided range and set an optimistic tone for 2025.Shares soared 15% to 7.81 Swiss francs in early morning trade Tuesday.The semiconductor maker said fourth-quarter revenue was flat at 882 million euros..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Maitane Sardon

Shares in Ams-Osram jumped after the company posted fourth-quarter revenue and profitability above the midpoint of its guided range and set an optimistic tone for 2025.

Shares soared 15% to 7.81 Swiss francs in early morning trade Tuesday.

The semiconductor maker said fourth-quarter revenue was flat at 882 million euros (909.1 million) quarter-over-quarter, but fell 3% on year. The company attributed the decline to cyclical weakness in its automotive and semiconductor businesses.

The result still was above the midpoint of a previously guided range of between 810 million and 910 million euros and analysts' expectations of 861 million euros.

Adjusted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization came in at 150 million euros, Ams-Osram said. The adjusted Ebitda margin of 17% was above the midpoint of the guided range of between 15% and 18%, it said.

The net loss for the quarter was 58 million euros, compared with a loss of 82 million euros in prior-year's fourth quarter.

Looking ahead, the company said it expects a meaningfully stronger second half and improving full-year profitability. It expects capital expenses of less than 8% of sales and free cash flow at above 100 million euros, it said.

Write to Maitane Sardon at maitane.sardon@wsj.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250211001875:0/)
