---
title: "Joann Plans to Close About 500 Stores — Update"
date: "2025-02-13 04:49:00"
summary: "By Josh BeckermanJoann plans to close about 500 stores, out of about 800 that it operated as of the time of its January chapter 11 filing.When it filed for bankruptcy for the second time in less than a year, the craft-focused retailer said stores remained open and that it would..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Josh Beckerman

Joann plans to close about 500 stores, out of about 800 that it operated as of the time of its January chapter 11 filing.

When it filed for bankruptcy for the second time in less than a year, the craft-focused retailer said stores remained open and that it would pursue a sale process. Gordon Brothers Retail Partners was selected as the stalking-horse bidder.

Joann said Wednesday that it is seeking bankruptcy court authority to begin closing stores.

"This was a very difficult decision to make, given the major impact we know it will have on our Team Members, our customers and all of the communities we serve," the company said.

As of January, Joann had about 3,400 full-time and 15,600 part-time employees.

Container Store, Big Lots, Party City and Conn's were among the retailers filing for bankruptcy in the second half of 2024. On Feb. 5, the smaller chain Bargain Hunt said it was closing all of its stores.

In a January court document, Joann noted trends such as inflation and higher interest rates.

The company also said its "loyal customer base had become accustomed to competitive pricing in the relatively consolidated arts-and-crafts and home goods industries, making it further difficult for JOANN to react to macroeconomic pressures across the retail sector that were applying downward pressure on margins."

Joann also faced inventory and re-stocking challenges. It discussed how a shortage of one product could hurt sales of other items among project-focused customers. When items are missing, some customers will "put their basket down, abandon the purchase altogether, and plan to return when all project items become available."

Write to Josh Beckerman at josh.beckerman@wsj.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250212011902:0/)
