---
title: "Tech, Media & Telecom Roundup: Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-14 17:20:00"
summary: "The latest Market Talks covering Technology, Media and Telecom. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires at 4:20 ET, 12:20 ET and 16:50 ET.0732 GMT - Chinese shares ended higher as pharmaceutical and software stocks benefitted from the AI momentum. Shenzhen Mindray Bio-Medical Electronics rose 4.3% and WuXi AppTec gained 4.6%...."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The latest Market Talks covering Technology, Media and Telecom. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires at 4:20 ET, 12:20 ET and 16:50 ET.

0732 GMT - Chinese shares ended higher as pharmaceutical and software stocks benefitted from the AI momentum. Shenzhen Mindray Bio-Medical Electronics rose 4.3% and WuXi AppTec gained 4.6%. Nomura analyst Jialin Zhang believes that investors are betting on the sector's AI potential, especially in areas like diagnosis, contract research and drug development, following the recent DeepSeek breakthrough. Amid the software makers, iFlytek gained 3.4% and Shanghai Baosight Software rose 8.0%. Property stocks fell broadly, with Poly Developments & Holdings Group down 0.8% and China Vanke dropping 2.0%. The benchmark Shanghai Composite Index ended 0.4% higher at 3346.72, the Shenzhen Composite Index rose 0.75% and the ChiNext Price Index advanced 1.8%. (sherry.qin@wsj.com)

0618 GMT - China's AI-related stocks have rallied on DeepSeek's breakthrough but could face near-term headwinds, HSBC analysts say in a research note. AI-related stocks, ranging from hardware to software and applications, currently account for more than 50% of the A-share market turnover, though they make up only 15% of the market capitalization, the analysts say. They note that these stocks could have stretched valuations, with the stocks trading at the high end of their historical prices since 2019. From a long-term perspective, however, these tech stocks still have sufficient upside for a rerating, the analysts add. "China's stock market has yet to reflect China's improving innovation capability." (sherry.qin@wsj.com)

0439 GMT - CelcomDigi's 2025 earnings outlook appears promising as depreciation costs ease post-merger and service revenue is guided for low single-digit growth versus a 0.6% decline in 2024, Kenanga IB analyst Kylie Chan Sze Zan says in a note. Post-merger synergies are expected to generate annual cost savings of MYR700 million-MYR800 million by 2027, she notes. However, 5G access fees to Digital Nasional, Malaysia's sole 5G service provider, may rise in 2025 under new conditions coming into effect, though the exact amount remains uncertain, she says. With network integration progressing well, CelcomDigi's outlook remains positive, she adds. Kenanga raises CelcomDigi's target price to MYR4.10 from MYR3.82, while maintaining an outperform rating on the stock. Shares are 7.2% lower at MYR3.59.(yingxian.wong@wsj.com)

0401 GMT - Lenovo Group's fiscal 3Q results were likely a solid beat, supported by better-than-expected PC and smartphone shipments, UOB Kay Hian analysts say in a research note. U.S. tariffs remain a risk, but all PC players will be affected, as most brands still heavily rely on assembly capacity in China, they say. The analysts estimate that Lenovo could face a 10%-15% impact on its bottom line for every additional 10% tariff on Chinese goods. "Nevertheless, if every player ends up being impacted, it is likely that the costs will be transferred to the customers, and could cause a slight impact to U.S. PC shipment," they say. PC brands will likely expand their U.S. production capacity, though it would take time, they add. Shares are up 2.8% at HK$12.50. (sherry.qin@wsj.com)

0352 GMT - Lenovo Group could be a key beneficiary of DeepSeek's breakthrough, UOB Kay Hian analysts Johnny Yum and Colin Lee say in a research note. The cheaper and more accessible AI features introduced by DeepSeek could encourage more enterprises, especially small- and mid-sized ones, to start investing in AI equipment, the analysts say. This could accelerate replacement demand for both PCs and servers, they add. Lenovo recently incorporated DeepSeek's AI model into its in-house AI assistant and is reportedly having more collaboration with the AI startup. UOB maintains a buy call on Lenovo and raises its target price to HK$14.30 from HK$12.00 on better visibility of the AI PC replacement cycle thanks to DeepSeek. Shares are 2.8% higher at HK$12.50. (sherry.qin@wsj.com)

0332 GMT - Kakao may post weak 1Q earnings due to its apparent lack of competitiveness in display advertising and its saturated online-gifting business, Nomura analysts Angela Hong and Won Kang write in a note. The South Korean mobile internet company's profit margins may also deteriorate in 1Q due to expected weak revenue from its paid-content business and the burden of fixed costs, they say. Kakao aims to enhance its advertising and e-commerce competitiveness with generative AI-based search tools, but its 2025 advertising business outlook remains uncertain, they add. Nomura raises its target price for Kakao by 5.4% to KRW39,000 but maintains a neutral rating. Shares are 3.0% lower at KRW39,000. (kwanwoo.jun@wsj.com)

0112 GMT - Kakao's 2025 earnings could be pressured by slower-than-expected recovery in its targeted advertising and e-commerce markets and higher-than-expected costs for artificial intelligence-related services, Daiwa Capital analysts Thomas Y. Kwon and Joon Lee write in a note. They lower their 2025 EPS forecast for the South Korean mobile internet company by 16%. Still, they positively note Kakao's planned new AI services for users in 1H and potentially strong growth momentum in user traffic, advertisement revenue and operating profit from 2H. Daiwa cuts its target price for the stock by 2.8% to KRW54,800 but keeps a buy rating. Shares are 0.6% lower at KRW39,950. (kwanwoo.jun@wsj.com)

0111 GMT - CelcomDigi's outlook appears less appealing, Maybank IB analyst Tan Chi Wei says in a note. Given the telco's weaker-than-expected 4Q 2024 results and more conservative 2025 guidance, a sharp net profit recovery may not materialize, he reckons. Even though unchanged merger synergy savings is positive, elevated IT capital expenditure could limit earnings growth, he adds. Tan cuts CelcomDigi's 2025-2026 net profit estimates by 25% and 28%, respectively, to reflect the company's tepid guidance. Maybank downgrades CelcomDigi's rating to hold from buy and cuts its target price to MYR3.80 from MYR4.50. Shares are 1.0% lower at MYR3.83. (yingxian.wong@wsj.com)

0037 GMT - For Spark NZ, this year likely won't be as bad as 2024, which included two downgrades to its guidance. Still, Forsyth Barr says the New Zealand telco's improvement will be driven by cost savings rather than revenue growth. Analyst Aaron Ibbotson expects Spark NZ's cash flow generation will be positive again, partly due to big cut in capex. But while its free cash flow is improving, it won't cover its dividend in FY 2025, Forsyth Barr says. "Further non-core assets sales may be announced in order to cover its dividend shortfall or fund its data center developments," Forsyth Barr says. Spark NZ is due to report its 1H results on Feb. 21. (david.winning@wsj.com; @dwinningWSJ)

2115 GMT - Australian property advertiser Domain should lean into its partnership with majority shareholder Nine Entertainment in an attempt to bridge the audience gap with larger rival REA, Citi analyst Siraj Ahmed says. He writes in a note that plans for increased collaboration with the media conglomerate, which owns 60% of Domain, is a positive. He wonders whether interim CEO Greg Ellis is able to make major strategic changes, or whether that will be left to the next permanent boss. Ahmed would still like to see Domain reduce its focus on, or even divest, its agent-services business. Citi raises its target price 1.6% to A$3.25 and stays neutral on the stock, which is at A$2.92 ahead of the open. REA is controlled by News Corp., which owns Dow Jones & Co., publisher of this newswire and The Wall Street Journal. (stuart.condie@wsj.com)

1806 GMT - Hewlett Packard Enterprise ships its first artificial-intelligence system with Nvidia's Blackwell chips to help companies accelerate the adoption of generative AI. The partnership, announced in June, uses HPE's advanced cooling systems to boost performance of the latest generation of Nvidia's high performance AI chips. Nvidia's Blackwell chips are designed to be about 25 times as energy efficient as its previous high-end version. Nvidia stock gains 2.9%, while HPE shares rise 0.5%. (chris.wack@wsj.com)

1741 GMT - Investments in AI and cloud will drive global IT spending growth to 9% this year, S&P Global Ratings says in a report. "Alphabet, Meta, Microsoft, and Amazon are significantly increasing capital expenditure despite emerging AI efficiency gains," S&P says, adding the robust spending plans come amid DeepSeek's recent efficiency breakthroughs. The agency also says the semiconductor industry is sharply divided, "with AI-driven demand surging while traditional markets such as PCs, automotive, and industrial segment face headwinds." In the face of possible tariffs, customers have been accelerating hardware purchases, S&P adds. (stephen.nakrosis@wsj.com)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250214004161:0/)
