---
title: "U.K.'s Water Watchdog Probes Thames Water for Delays on Environmental Improvements—Update"
date: "2025-02-12 16:32:00"
summary: "By Najat KantouarThe U.K. water watchdog opened an investigation regarding delays on the completion of environmental improvements by Thames Water.Ofwat said Wednesday that it will investigate whether delays to the embattled U.K. water and wastewater company's environmental improvement programs implies that it breached its obligations.Thames Water committed to deliver 812..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Najat Kantouar

The U.K. water watchdog opened an investigation regarding delays on the completion of environmental improvements by Thames Water.

Ofwat said Wednesday that it will investigate whether delays to the embattled U.K. water and wastewater company's environmental improvement programs implies that it breached its obligations.

Thames Water committed to deliver 812 projects as part of the Water Industry National Environmental program during the period 2020 to 2025. However, the company alerted the regulator and the U.K.'s Environment Agency that it will be unlikely to deliver more than 100 of these environmental improvement programs on time, by March 31.

"We take any indication that water companies are not meeting their legal obligations very seriously. If we find reason to act, we will use our full range of powers to hold Thames to account for any failures and will require them to put things right," Senior Director for Enforcement at Ofwat Lynn Parker said.

A Thames Water spokesperson said the company would remain committed to delivering all its commitments and will fully cooperate with Ofwat. The spokesperson added that customers won't need to pay again for the programs, which have already been funded through their bills.

The spokesperson added that customers won't need to pay again for the programs, which have already been funded through their bills.

"We've been very open about the challenges of delivering all the elements of our [Water Industrial National Environmental] 7 program, which has been impacted by cost increases that are higher than the inflation index applied to our allowances. We informed Ofwat of this in August 2023," the company added.

Write to Najat Kantouar at najat.kantouar@wsj.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250212003146:0/)
