---
title: "Sony Group Expected to Post Lower Third-Quarter Net Profit — Earnings Preview"
date: "2025-02-12 09:41:00"
summary: "By Kosaku NariokaSony Group is scheduled to report third-quarter results on Thursday. Here's what you need to know:NET PROFIT FORECAST: Sony Group is expected to post a 20% drop in net profit to 290.5 billion yen, equivalent to $1.90 billion, for the three months ended December, according to a poll..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Kosaku Narioka

Sony Group is scheduled to report third-quarter results on Thursday. Here's what you need to know:

NET PROFIT FORECAST: Sony Group is expected to post a 20% drop in net profit to 290.5 billion yen, equivalent to $1.90 billion, for the three months ended December, according to a poll of analysts by Visible Alpha. That would compare with Y363.92 billion in net profit in the year-earlier period.

REVENUE FORECAST: Third-quarter revenue is estimated to have declined 1.6% from a year earlier to Y3.688 trillion, according to the Visible Alpha poll.

The stock has risen 1.8% so far this year to close at Y3,429 on Monday, following a 26% gain in 2024. The ascent has been driven by growing hopes for the company's success in focusing on its games and other entertainment businesses.

WHAT TO WATCH:

* Sony has spent billions of dollars in acquisitions in recent years to boost its entertainment content. In January, the company took an additional stake in Japanese publishing house Kadokawa for more than $300 million. Investors will be paying attention to any further steps Sony may take to sharpen its focus on its entertainment businesses.
* For the fiscal year ending March, Sony has projected revenue to decline 2.4% to Y12.710 trillion and net profit to rise 1.0% to Y980.00 billion. Investors will be focusing on any changes to the guidance that management may make.
* Second-quarter operating profit for its game business more than doubled to Y138.85 billion, driven by higher sales of software and network services as well as an improvement in hardware profitability. Investors will be closely watching the strength of the key business during the quarter covering the holiday shopping season.

Write to Kosaku Narioka at kosaku.narioka@wsj.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250211013264:0/)
