---
title: "Canada Names Fentanyl Czar In Effort to Avert 25% Tariffs — Update"
date: "2025-02-12 06:16:00"
summary: "By Paul VieiraOTTAWA--Canada on Tuesday named a former senior law-enforcement officer and national security adviser as the country's new fentanyl czar, delivering on a promise made to President Trump to help avert a 25% tariff on the country's U.S.-bound exports.Prime Minister Justin Trudeau said the appointment of Kevin Brosseau would..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Paul Vieira

OTTAWA--Canada on Tuesday named a former senior law-enforcement officer and national security adviser as the country's new fentanyl czar, delivering on a promise made to President Trump to help avert a 25% tariff on the country's U.S.-bound exports.

Prime Minister Justin Trudeau said the appointment of Kevin Brosseau would take effect immediately. Last October, Brosseau was appointed as the deputy national security adviser to Trudeau, following a career in the Royal Canadian Mounted Police and in the senior ranks of the federal bureaucracy.

Trudeau said in a statement Brosseau would work with U.S. counterparts and law-enforcement agencies to accelerate Canadian efforts to disrupt and dismantle the fentanyl trade.

Trudeau promised Trump that he would appoint a fentanyl czar and beef up efforts to stem the flow of illegal drugs into the U.S. In exchange, Trump provided a temporary reprieve on the 25% tariff he threatened to impose on imports from Canada and Mexico due to what he said were lax border-security measures from America's two neighbors.

The tariff could still come into effect on March 4, depending on progress from both countries on stepping up fentanyl deterrence, the White House said.

Besides appointing a fentanyl czar, Trudeau also said he would authorize spending of up to 200 million Canadian dollars, or the equivalent of $140 million, to deal with organized crime and fentanyl trafficking.

A growing body of evidence from Canadian law-enforcement investigations shows that transnational organized-crime groups, including ones linked to Mexican cartels, are increasingly using Canada as a base from which to make drugs and export them to the U.S., Europe and Australia.

A 25% tariff on Canadian nonenergy imports, and retaliatory tariffs from Canada on U.S. goods entering the country, would likely throw the country into a recession, economists had said.

Write to Paul Vieira at paul.vieira@wsj.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250211012216:0/)
