---
title: "News Highlights: Top Company News of the Day - Tuesday at 9 AM ET"
date: "2025-02-11 22:15:00"
summary: "Coca-Cola Stock Rises After Earnings. Here's What Got the Market Excited.Fourth-quarter earnings and revenue at the beverage giant top Wall Street expectations.Musk's $97.4 Billion OpenAI Bid Piles Pressure on AltmanThe unsolicited offer for the assets of OpenAI could end up costing CEO Sam Altman, whether he takes it or not.Humana..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

**Coca-Cola Stock Rises After Earnings. Here's What Got the Market Excited.**

Fourth-quarter earnings and revenue at the beverage giant top Wall Street expectations.

**Musk's $97.4 Billion OpenAI Bid Piles Pressure on Altman**

The unsolicited offer for the assets of OpenAI could end up costing CEO Sam Altman, whether he takes it or not.

**Humana says 2025 is critical for margin recovery as quarterly loss widens**

Humana expects to lose another 550,000 Medicare Advantage members this year.

**DuPont Stock Rises on Strong Earnings and Outlook**

DuPont reports fourth-quarter adjusted earnings per share of $1.13 from sales of $3.1 billion. Wall Street was looking for profit of 98 cents a share and sales of $3.1 billion.

**Travelers Sees $1.7 Billion Pretax Catastrophe Losses From California Wildfires**

Travelers said it expects pretax catastrophe losses of $1.7 billion from the devastating wildfires that struck southern California in January.

**Shopify Earnings Beat Expectations. The Stock Is Wavering.**

The e-commerce platform beats quarterly estimates for revenue and gross merchandise volume.

**BP Touts 'New Beginning,' Fundamental Change in Strategy**

BP said profit fell more than expected and that it would reset its strategy, days after reports that activist hedge fund Elliott Management is pushing for change at the company.

**SMIC Quarterly Profit Falls, Expects Continued Revenue Growth**

China's largest chip maker reported lower profit during the traditional off-peak season, but expects continued revenue growth in the current quarter.

**TUI Shares Fall on Decline in Booking, Pricing Growth**

Despite on-year increases to both bookings and prices, growth slowed compared with what TUI had reported in December for the end of fiscal 2024.

**UniCredit To Balance Potential Deals With Shareholder Rewards This Year**

UniCredit should be in a position to decide on a possible takeover of Germany's Commerzbank in a few quarters, its chief executive said as the Italian bank balances its dealmaking efforts at home and abroad with shareholder returns.

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250211006052:0-news-highlights-top-company-news-of-the-day-tuesday-at-9-am-et/)
