---
title: "Global Equities Roundup: Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-14 16:47:00"
summary: "The latest Market Talks covering Equities. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.0847 GMT - Safran's year-end results offered few surprises as its results were in line with consensus expectations, JPMorgan analysts say in a research note. The French aerospace-industry supplier increased its guidance for civil aircraft engine..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The latest Market Talks covering Equities. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.

0847 GMT - Safran's year-end results offered few surprises as its results were in line with consensus expectations, JPMorgan analysts say in a research note. The French aerospace-industry supplier increased its guidance for civil aircraft engine spare part sales for the year to high-single digit percentage growth from up from mid-single to high-single digit growth previously, a move the analysts say doesn't seem spectacular. Nevertheless, consensus expectations for this year may rise by around 1% after the company raised its adjusted earnings and cash guidance for the year. Shares trade 0.65% higher at 247.40 euros. (pierre.bertrand@wsj.com)

0837 GMT - Heightened uncertainty over the trade tariffs U.S. President Trump could implement means investors need to ensure they have diverse portfolios and employ hedging strategies, says UBS Global Wealth Management's Mark Haefele. "While the delay in implementation limits immediate market impact, the risk of retaliation remains," the chief investment officer says. Within equities, capital preservation strategies could be necessary to prevent losses if stocks turn lower. UBS GWM favors high-grade and investment-grade bonds as a way to diversify portfolios as these offer "insulation against uncertainty." (jessica.fleetham@wsj.com)

0820 GMT - Hong Kong shares closed higher, supported by healthcare and tech stocks. Investor sentiment remained positive on Chinese equities, thanks to the momentum boost from DeepSeek. Alibaba Health Information Technology surged 29%, Wuxi Biologics rose 12% and WuXi AppTec gained 10.0%. Tech stocks were also higher with investors watching for Chinese President Xi's meeting with top business executives next week, according to a media reports. Kuaishou Technology rose 7.65% and JD.com rose 7.6%. Among the few decliners, WH Group led the losses, falling 2.3% and Power Assets declining 1.2%. The benchmark Hang Seng Index ended 3.7% higher at 22620.33 and Hang Seng Tech Index rose 5.6%. Both indexes rose around 7% for the week. (jiahui.huang@wsj.com; @ivy\_jiahuihuang)

0820 GMT - Segro's 2024 results show the industrial property market turned a corner in the second half, with property values increasing for the first time in several years, Quilter Cheviot analyst Oli Creasey says in a note. Although the increase was only 1.1%, the change in direction is an important datapoint, considering the cloud that U.K. real estate has been operating under since interest rates began increasing, Creasey says. Still, although property performance remains strong, earnings growth was muted due to a strong2023 comparison when Segro earned almost 90 million pounds from performance fees, he says. "Segro is invested in one of the more exciting property sectors, and the pipeline of European data center projects is particularly promising," Creasey adds. Shares are down 0.1% at 721.60 pence.(anthony.orunagoriainoff@dowjones.com)

0807 GMT - NatWest's guidance for 2025 lack some punch, Hargreaves Lansdown says in a market comment after the British bank's results. The lender's expectations for this year align with consensus estimates. "The buzz around the sector and better-than-expected results in the final quarter mean investors will have been hoping to get a punchier outlook," analyst Matt Britzman writes, adding this might cause weakness in early exchanges. In the longer term, the decent set of results--which slightly beat expectations, closing a 2024 that saw a seismic positive sentiment shift--set up the bank for another good year. Shares open 1.4% lower at 431 pence, bringing its year to date gains to around 7%. (elena.vardon@wsj.com)

0750 GMT - Robinsons Retail Holdings' same-store sales growth is poised to accelerate in 2025, SB Equities' Lance Gabriel Soledad says in a research report. During its 4Q earnings call, the multi-format retailer stated that it's targeting SSSG of 2%-4% in 2025, compared to 2024's blended SSSG of 1.5%, the analyst notes. The Philippine company also aims for a gross profit margin increase of 20-30 basis points, along with net store additions of 130-170 this year. Moreover, the prospects of slowing inflation in the Philippines may drive a progressive rebound in the company's discretionary formats. The brokerage raises its target price to PHP57.50 from PHP50.22, partly reflecting the rollover of its earnings estimates, while maintaining an unchanged "add" rating. Shares are up 0.1% at PHP36.00. (ronnie.harui@wsj.com)

0749 GMT - The U.K.'s FTSE 100 index is expected to open slightly higher, up 0.1%, according to IG, while Germany's DAX looks set to open 0.4% lower after hitting record highs recently. The recent rally in stocks has been helped by earnings data, says XTB's Kathleen Brooks in a note. Traders have largely shrugged off tariff threats for now, but the prospect of Trump announcing tariffs against European goods still looms. President Trump ordered federal agencies on Thursday to explore how to adjust U.S. tariffs to match of those of other countries. Brooks says these could take longer to plan. France's CAC 40 is expected to open down 0.1%, according to IG. (jessica.fleetham@wsj.com)

0742 GMT - NatWest reported a solid set of results and upgraded guidance that aligns with consensus, Keefe, Bruyette & Woods says in a research note after the British lender's quarterly print. It guided for a return on tangible equity between 15% and 16% for 2025, while consensus estimates stood at 15.7%. NatWest also guided for total income for the year in the 15.2 billion to 15.7 billion pound range, in line with expectations of 15.5 billion pounds. The lack of share-buyback announcement might be slightly disappointing, analysts write, noting the 15.5 pence-a-share dividend was better than expected. (elena.vardon@wsj.com)

0732 GMT - Chinese shares ended higher as pharmaceutical and software stocks benefitted from the AI momentum. Shenzhen Mindray Bio-Medical Electronics rose 4.3% and WuXi AppTec gained 4.6%. Nomura analyst Jialin Zhang believes that investors are betting on the sector's AI potential, especially in areas like diagnosis, contract research and drug development, following the recent DeepSeek breakthrough. Amid the software makers, iFlytek gained 3.4% and Shanghai Baosight Software rose 8.0%. Property stocks fell broadly, with Poly Developments & Holdings Group down 0.8% and China Vanke dropping 2.0%. The benchmark Shanghai Composite Index ended 0.4% higher at 3346.72, the Shenzhen Composite Index rose 0.75% and the ChiNext Price Index advanced 1.8%. (sherry.qin@wsj.com)

0713 GMT - China's recent AI breakthrough could boost the efficiency of its healthcare sector and enable other potential novel services, Jefferies analyst Cui Cui says in an email. Chinese health-tech stocks are broadly higher in Hong Kong, with Alibaba Health Information up 25% and Ping An Health and Technology gaining 14%. Chinese contract drug makers WuXi AppTec and WuXi Biologics are 8.4% and 11% higher, respectively. Although these stocks aren't direct beneficiaries of the AI concept, they are likely rallying on their significant underweight positions and the fundamental shift in market sentiment after the Biosecure Act wasn't passed under the Biden administration, Cui adds. Her top industry picks in 2025 are WuXi Bio due to its better new order growth momentum and JD Health because of its AI development potential. (sherry.qin@wsj.com)

0705 GMT - Japan's benchmark Nikkei Stock Average closed lower as some profit-taking occurred following recent gains. The index was down 0.8% at 39149.43, weighed down by conglomerates in the heavy industries sector. Shares of Itochu, Mitsubishi and Mitsui & Co fell 2.8%, 1.1%, and 1.5%, respectively. Among the outliers was electronics giant Sony, whose shares hit a record high and closed 8.7% higher. USD/JPY was 0.2% lower at 152.52. (venkat.pr@wsj.com)

0648 GMT - South Korea's benchmark Kospi rose 0.3% to close at 2591.05, gaining for a fourth consecutive session. The index rose 2.7% for the week. Institutional investors were net buyers in Friday's session. Markets seemed relieved after President Trump ordered federal agencies to study reciprocal tariffs by April 1, suggesting there won't be any immediate tariff imposition. Insurers were among the top gainers. Samsung Fire & Marine Insurance and Samsung Life Insurance rose 9.3% and 7.3%, respectively, after the latter filed for regulatory approval to incorporate the former as a subsidiary. USD/KRW settled 0.3% lower at 1,443.50 in Seoul onshore trading. South Korea's 10-year government bond yield is down 1.6 bps at 2.856%. (kwanwoo.jun@wsj.com)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250214003900:0/)
