---
title: "The Importance of This Week's Inflation Report; Powell Testimony Awaited; EU Vows Tariff Response"
date: "2025-02-11 20:15:00"
summary: "The Importance of This Week's Inflation Report; Powell Testimony Awaited; EU Vows Tariff Response By Vicky Ge HuangNot every monthly inflation report is created equally. In an economy with price pressures, January has packed a bigger punch.Price hikes in recent years have been exceptionally strong in the month of January,..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The Importance of This Week's Inflation Report; Powell Testimony Awaited; EU Vows Tariff Response By Vicky Ge Huang

Not every monthly inflation report is created equally. In an economy with price pressures, January has packed a bigger punch.

Price hikes in recent years have been exceptionally strong in the month of January, reflecting outsize turn-of-the-year price resets.

The upshot is that inflation reports due this week could show whether the Federal Reserve's fight to bring inflation down has cleared a key hurdle, writes Nick Timiraos for The Wall Street Journal.

Meanwhile, escalating trade tensions dinged stock futures and sent shares of steel and aluminum producers climbing for a second day, after President Trump signed off on tariffs on both metals and said that more levies are to come.

The European Union responded swiftly Tuesday, with European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen saying the bloc intends to retaliate against the latest tariffs.

Markets have so far largely shrugged off tariff news, but Tuesday's premarket moves may indicate that is changing. Meantime, gold, considered a haven during market jitters, is hovering near the record high reached Monday.

Later today, Fed Chair Jerome Powell will make his first Congressional appearance since President Trump's inauguration. Investors will listen for updates on the state of the economy and the potential interest-rate path.

Top News Why This Week's Inflation Report Is Especially Important

The Labor Department is set to report Wednesday on January prices as measured by the consumer-price index. A separate report on wholesale prices is due Thursday. Those two measures are used to calculate inflation according to a third gauge that the Federal Reserve prefers, called the personal-consumption expenditures price index, or PCE, which will be released by the Commerce Department at the end of the month.

For the Fed, the stakes are high. One year ago, inflation appeared to be cruising rapidly toward the Fed's goal, then hit a big speed bump in the first quarter. Officials were greeted by a similar rude inflation surprise at the start of 2023, when changes to seasonal adjustment factors revised away previous progress. Read more .

BOE Key Rate Should Remain 'Well Above' Neutral, Mann Says

The Bank of England's key interest rate should continue to restrain economic activity to ensure that households and businesses don't act in ways that would prolong a coming pickup in inflation, a member of the Monetary Policy Committee said Tuesday.

Investors slightly reduce their expectations of the Bank of England cutting interest rates in March after BOE monetary policy committee member Catherine Mann emphasised the need for restrictive monetary policy to tackle inflation. Markets price a 27% chance of a March rate cut following the speech, down from 29% beforehand, LSEG Refinitiv data show. (Dow Jones Newswires) BOC Survey: Market Participants Believe Rate Cuts Stop at 2.5%

Market participants expect the Bank of Canada's policy rate to fall to 2.5% by July, and remain at that level through 2026, according to a central-bank survey issued Monday.

The Bank of Canada conducted the survey of about 30 market participants from mid-December to early January, meaning participants were cognizant of President Trump's threat to impose a 25% on all nonenergy goods and 10% on energy products entering the U.S. Trump withdrew the tariff threat until early March, conditional on Canada fulfilling some promises on fortifying border security and deterring fentanyl trafficking.

The survey said the median from nearly 30 responses via market participants indicated the Bank of Canada's target for the overnight rate would fall to 2.5% by July, and remain at that level through 2026. The Bank of Canada cut its policy rate last month, to 3%, citing excess slack in the economy and the tariff threat from the U.S.

The central bank sets interest rates to achieve and maintain 2% inflation. More than 80% of respondents believe inflation will remain below 3% this year and next year. (Dow Jones Newswires)

RBA's Looming Policy Meeting Set to Be a Tense Tightrope Walk By James Glynn

If money market pricing is to be believed, an interest-rate cut by the Reserve Bank of Australia next week is nearly a done deal. The reality is that the discussion around the RBA table will be tense, uneasy, and far more finely balanced than most understand.

The lack of certainty going into the meeting, the central bank's first of the year, won't simply be because policymakers know their decision could play a role in deciding the outcome of the country's fast-approaching federal election. Other factors are in play .

U.S. Economy Trump's Conflicting Business Policies Sow Economic Uncertainty

The end goal for President Donald Trump seems to be an economy with a smaller role for imports, immigrants and the federal government and a bigger one for private investment. But the execution has generated intense uncertainty-among business owners, workers and trade partners-that could damp growth, at least temporarily.

Trump and the Economy: Join a Live Q&A With WSJ's Justin Lahart Republicans Bank on Growth Boom to Claim Budget Math Adds Up

House Republicans are banking on faster economic growth to make their budget math work , and it might not sound like the typical "tax cuts pay for themselves" argument.

Trump Imposes Global 25% Steel, Aluminum Tariffs

President Trump on Monday announced 25% tariffs on imports of steel and aluminum to the U.S., reinstating global duties without exceptions for allies such as Canada, Mexico, Japan and South Korea that were relaxed by the Biden administration.

Trump Tells U.S. Treasury to Stop Minting Pennies

President Trump said he has instructed the U.S. Treasury to stop producing new pennies , calling the minting of the coin a waste of money. "For far too long the United States has minted pennies which literally cost us more than 2 cents," Trump said in a post on Truth Social. "Let's rip the waste out of our great nations budget, even if it's a penny at a time."

Forward Guidance Tuesday (all times ET)

10 a.m.: Federal Reserve Board Chair Jerome Powell presents Monetary Policy Report to U.S. Senate Banking Committee

3:30 p.m.: Federal Reserve Bank of New York President John Williams speaks at Pace University Economics Society event

Wednesday

8:30 a.m.: CPI

10 a.m.: Federal Reserve Board Chair Jerome Powell presents Monetary Policy Report to U.S. House Financial Services Committee

12 p.m.: Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta President Raphael Bostic speaks at meeting of the Atlanta chapter of the National Association of Corporate Directors

Research NY Fed Survey Delivers Ambiguous Read on Labor Market

Consumers deliver a split take on the labor market in the New York Fed's latest survey. Earnings growth expectations over the next year increase slightly to 3%--but this number has held relatively steady for the past 12 months in the survey. Expectations that unemployment will rise over the next year decline by 0.6 percentage points to 34%, showing optimism. On the other hand, the mean perceived probability of losing one's job over the next year increases by 2.3 percentage points, to 14.2%, a more downbeat result. But finally, there was also an increase in the perceived probability of finding a new job in the next three months if one lost one's current job. That figure rises by 1.3 percentage points to 51.5%. - Matt Grossman

Basis Points The head of the European Commission said U.S. President Trump's decision to slap tariffs on European Union exports of steel and aluminum would result in countermeasures . French unemployment unexpectedly edged down in the final months of last year, despite a creaking economy. As President Trump turns up the heat on Beijing, China is trying to become more technologically self-sufficient , but its efforts have a significant cost. China's cabinet pledged to boost domestic consumption this year while vowing to stabilize foreign capital crucial for job creation. China's vehicle sales fell in January , pressured by subdued demand and a front-loading effect from the previous month. South Korea's state-run think tank has cut its growth forecast for the country this year, citing President Donald Trump's trade policy as a downside risk to exports growth. About Us

WSJ Pro Central Banking brings you central banking news, analysis and insights from WSJ's global team of reporters and editors. This newsletter was compiled by markets reporter Vicky Ge Huang in New York. Send your tips, suggestions and feedback to [vicky.huang@wsj.com].

This article is a text version of a Wall Street Journal newsletter published earlier today.

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250211004001:0-the-importance-of-this-week-s-inflation-report-powell-testimony-awaited-eu-vows-tariff-response/)
