---
title: "News Highlights: Top Company News of the Day - Friday at 3 AM ET"
date: "2025-02-14 16:15:00"
summary: "Hermes Posts Higher Revenue on Strong Americas PerformanceThe maker of the Birkin bag reported higher sales, adding to signs of a potential rebound in demand for luxury goods.Safran Raises Dividend, 2025 Outlook After Record EarningsDemand for after-market services, equipment and aircraft interiors propelled the aerospace-industry supplier's 2024 results.Chinese Companies Work..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

**Hermes Posts Higher Revenue on Strong Americas Performance**

The maker of the Birkin bag reported higher sales, adding to signs of a potential rebound in demand for luxury goods.

**Safran Raises Dividend, 2025 Outlook After Record Earnings**

Demand for after-market services, equipment and aircraft interiors propelled the aerospace-industry supplier's 2024 results.

**Chinese Companies Work Around Trump to Keep Selling to Americans**

Shein, Temu and their suppliers are moving to shift production out of China before they potentially lose a U.S. duty-free provision.

**Eneos Plans to Spin off Metals Subsidiary**

The energy company plans to spin off its metals subsidiary and raise as much as $3 billion through a listing that would be one of Japan's biggest such offerings in recent years.

**Apple and Google Restore TikTok to Mobile App Stores**

The iPhone maker and the search giant had pulled the app to comply with a law that was later paused by President Trump after his inauguration.

**Auto Executives Try to Sway Trump on Tariffs, EV Subsidies**

Ford CEO warned lawmakers in Washington that tariffs would hurt U.S. car companies.

**Meta Platforms Raises Dividend by 5%**

The Facebook and Instagram parent outlined a plan to return more money to shareholders, increasing its quarterly dividend by 5%, to 52.5 cents.

**Palo Alto Networks' stock is falling. Here's what was missing from earnings.**

The cybersecurity company says its 'platformization' strategy is working, but its latest report lacked oomph on a bookings metric.

**Airbnb Swings to Profit, Plans to Invest in New Businesses**

Airbnb expects to make $2.23 billion to $2.27 billion in revenue during the first quarter of 2025, below analysts expectations of $2.29 billion, according to FactSet.

**Deere Beats Earnings Estimates, But the Stock Dropped. Here's Why.**

Deere maintains its financial guidance, saying it expects large-equipment sales to decline by 30% in the U.S. in fiscal 2025.

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250214003695:0-news-highlights-top-company-news-of-the-day-friday-at-3-am-et/)
