---
title: "U.S. Crude Oil Stockpiles Rise For Third Straight Week"
date: "2025-02-12 23:53:00"
summary: "By Anthony HarrupU.S. crude oil inventories increased for a third consecutive week while gasoline stocks declined for the first time in three months, according to data released Wednesday by the U.S. Energy Information Administration.Commercial crude oil stocks excluding the Strategic Petroleum Reserve rose by 4.1 million barrels to 427.9 million..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Anthony Harrup

U.S. crude oil inventories increased for a third consecutive week while gasoline stocks declined for the first time in three months, according to data released Wednesday by the U.S. Energy Information Administration.

Commercial crude oil stocks excluding the Strategic Petroleum Reserve rose by 4.1 million barrels to 427.9 million barrels in the week ended Feb. 7 and were about 4% below the five-year average for the time of year, the EIA said. Analysts surveyed by The Wall Street Journal had expected crude stockpiles to be up by 2.4 million barrels.

Oil stored in the SPR increased by 249,000 barrels to 395.3 million barrels. Oil stocks at Cushing, Okla., the Nymex delivery hub, increased by 872,000 barrels to 21.8 million barrels.

The EIA estimated U.S. crude oil production at 13.5 million barrels a day, practically unchanged from the week before, while imports fell by 606,000 barrels a day to 6.3 million barrels a day, and exports dropped by 422,000 barrels a day to 3.9 million barrels a day.

Refinery capacity use rose by half of a percentage point to 85%. Refinery runs were forecast to have edged up by 0.2 of a percentage point.

Gasoline inventories fell for the first time in 13 weeks, decreasing by 3 million barrels to 248.1 million barrels, and were 1% below the five-year average, the EIA said. Gasoline demand picked up by 249,000 barrels a day to 8.6 million barrels a day the week before. Gasoline stocks were projected to have risen by 800,000 barrels.

Distillate fuel stockpiles rose by 135,000 barrels to 118.6 million barrels, against expectations of 1.6 million barrel decline, and were 11% below the five-year average.

```
   
Change in U.S. oil inventories for the week ended Feb. 7:   
   
                   Crude       Gasoline      Distillates        Refinery Use   
EIA data:           4.1          -3.0            0.1                 0.5   
Forecast:           2.4           0.8           -1.6                 0.2   
 
```

Note: Numbers in millions of barrels, with the exception of refinery use, which is in percentage points.

Write to Anthony Harrup at anthony.harrup@wsj.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250212009690:0/)
