---
title: "Corn Futures Drop After Wasde Keeps Estimates Unchanged - Daily Grain Highlights"
date: "2025-02-12 04:01:00"
summary: "By Kirk MaltaisCorn for March delivery fell 1.6%, to $4.83 3/4 a bushel, on the Chicago Board of Trade on Tuesday, with futures turning negative after the USDA's Wasde report left U.S. production, ending stocks, and demand all unchanged from the previous month.Soybeans for March delivery fell 0.6%, to $10.43..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Kirk Maltais

* Corn for March delivery fell 1.6%, to $4.83 3/4 a bushel, on the Chicago Board of Trade on Tuesday, with futures turning negative after the USDA's Wasde report left U.S. production, ending stocks, and demand all unchanged from the previous month.
* Soybeans for March delivery fell 0.6%, to $10.43 1/2 a bushel.
* Wheat for March delivery fell 0.5%, to $5.76 3/4 a bushel.

HIGHLIGHTS

Domestic Disappointment: CBOT grains fell after Tuesday's Wasde report left much of the agency's domestic outlook unchanged from the previous month--even if world projections showed a tighter story for both corn and soybeans. "The trade was disappointed not to see U.S. corn export revisions," said Terry Reilly of Marex. Analysts and traders were anticipating the USDA to show higher corn demand via domestic consumption and export sales, which underpinned recent gains.

Lacking Excitement: Tuesday's Wasde report was classified by traders and analysts as "neutral," said Naomi Blohm of Total Farm Marketing in a note--but the lack of excitement around U.S. corn and soybean crops sent those futures lower after the report's release. "USDA report was a 'dud'," said Blohm in a note after the report was issued. "No changes to anything on the corn and bean categories for the U.S."

Russian Roulette: Russian agricultural consulting firm IKAR lowered its forecast for Russia's 2025 wheat crop to 82 million metric tons in a baseline scenario, 2 million tons lower than the firm's previous projection. The firm also cut its outlook for Russian wheat exports in the 2024/25 marketing year to 43 million tons. Insufficient snow cover is a major reason behind the cuts, and analysts speculate that the situation may worsen. "There are currently concerns that low temperatures could lead to frost damage to the growing plants," said Commerzbank in a note. This was supportive for wheat futures, ahead of the Wasde's release at noon ET.

INSIGHT

South American Balance: The USDA pared its estimates for corn and soybean crops in Argentina and Brazil in Tuesday's Wasde, cutting Argentina's forecasted soybean production by 3 million metric tons and reducing corn in both countries by 1 million tons each. For soybeans, the output expected from Brazil in 2025 remains massive, said Doug Bergman of RCM Alternatives in a note. "The record crop in Brazil will keep global supplies on track to be record large," said Bergman.

Back to Basics: With the Wasde released and out of the way, traders are turning their focus back to more usual factors as the prime mover of grain futures. "The markets will continue to trade off of weather, tariffs and demand over the near term," said Donna Hughes of StoneX. "Have to continue to feed the bulls, so if we don't have that type of fundamental, the path of least resistance is lower to sideways."

AHEAD

* The EIA will release its weekly ethanol production and stocks report at 10:30 a.m. ET Wednesday.
* The USDA will release its weekly export sales report at 8:30 a.m. ET Thursday.
* The CFTC will release its weekly Commitment of Traders report at 3:30 p.m. ET Friday.

Write to Kirk Maltais at kirk.maltais@wsj.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250211009065:0/)
