---
title: "Basic Materials Roundup: Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-13 05:50:00"
summary: "The latest Market Talks covering Basic Materials. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires at 4:20 ET, 12:20 ET and 16:50 ET.1158 ET - Canada Prime Minister Justin Trudeau says he had a short encounter with Vice President JD Vance about the negative fallout from a 25% tariff on steel and..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The latest Market Talks covering Basic Materials. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires at 4:20 ET, 12:20 ET and 16:50 ET.

1158 ET - Canada Prime Minister Justin Trudeau says he had a short encounter with Vice President JD Vance about the negative fallout from a 25% tariff on steel and aluminum from Ohio. Trudeau tells reporters he told Vance — for an AI conference in Paris that the two lawmakers attended — that about C$2.2 billion of Canadian-made steel and aluminum are used by manufacturers in Vance's home state. "He nodded and noted it," Trudeau says, noting it was a short exchange. Earlier in the day, Quebec Premier Francois Legault mused that perhaps Canada should slap an export tax on U.S.-bound aluminum should the Trump administration imposes a hefty tariff on the metal. Canadian officials play down talk of export taxes, saying they want to press U.S. officials for a carve out. (paul.vieira@wsj.com, @paulvieira)

1058 ET - Quebec Premier Francois Legault suggests that Canada might want to slap an export tax on aluminum should President Trump follow through on imposing a 25% tariff on all imported steel and aluminum. Canada is by far the biggest seller of foreign aluminum to the U.S., and the bulk of Canadian aluminum is in the province of Quebec. The U.S. "really needs us" on aluminum, says Legault, who is in Washington with other Canadian premiers to persuade lawmakers and officials about the potential fallout on tariffs on Canadian imports. An export tax on products like aluminum might get Trump's attention, he says. "We have to be careful," Legault adds, "[because] we want to have a deal with no tariffs." (paul.vieira@wsj.com; @paulvieira)

0932 ET - Gold futures drop after the 12-month CPI accelerates to 3% from 2.9%, with the core moving to 3.3% from 3.2%. Gold was under pressure after Fed Chair Powell told Congress Tuesday that the Fed was in no hurry to cut rates and saw the U.S. economy "broadly in balance." Gold fell more than 1% following the January CPI, but has since pared losses, with the most-active contract now down only 0.5%. (kirk.maltais@wsj.com)

0509 ET - Palm oil prices rose, driven by tightened supply and a softer Malaysian ringgit, Darren Lim, commodities strategist at Phillip Nova writes in a note. The 17% drop in production in January, according to the Malaysian Palm Oil Board, reflects tightening supply, driving the price rally along with expectations of heightened demand ahead of the Ramadan festive season, Lim says. A weaker ringgit has also made palm oil more attractive to foreign buyers, Lim adds. The Bursa Malaysia Derivatives contract for April delivery rose MYR31 to MYR4,624/ton. (kimberley.kao@wsj.com)

0444 ET - Voestalpine cut its outlook partially due to one-off charges, Morgan Stanley analysts say in a research note. The Austrian steelmaker cut fiscal 2025 Ebitda guidance to 1.3 billion euros from 1.4 billion euros, coming just under company-compiled consensus of 1.36 billion, the analyst note. The revised outlook includes 200 million euros of one-off items relating to the sale of Buderus, as well as charges due to the reorganization of the automotive components unit, they say. The company's third-quarter reported Ebitda came to 250 million euros, missing Morgan Stanley's expectations of 269 million euros. However, net income beat estimates due to positive income tax from prior tax credits. Shares trade down 1.1% at 20.28 euros. (pierre.bertrand@wsj.com)

2106 ET - Crude palm oil prices are likely to remain stable in February, hovering around between MYR4,500/ton to MYR5,000/ton. The prices are seen to be supported by restocking ahead of the Ramadan festive season as well as lower output, MIDF Research says in a note. January CPO average prices strengthened by 24% on year. Malaysia's palm oil output recovery is expected to be slow, with only 1% growth expected in 2025, due to biological tree rest and adverse weather, it adds. Large planters, such as IOI Corp., SD Guthrie, and Genting Plantations, could benefit from elevated CPO prices, it adds. MIDF maintains a tactical positive rating on the Malaysian plantation sector, expecting high CPO prices to persist at least until 1H. (yingxian.wong@wsj.com)

1847 ET - Evolution Mining avoids widespread selling pressure on Australia's benchmark ASX 200 index today after posting a 1H earnings beat, but Jefferies stays cautious on the gold producer. Evolution's 1H Ebitda was 7% higher than analyst Mitch Ryan's expectations. Net debt fell to A$1.48 billion and gearing is declining. Recent cash generation, improved operational consistency, and strong commodity prices will continue to support Evolution's efforts to bring debt down, Jefferies says. "However we remain cautious ahead of crystallization of several significant projects' capital over FY 2025, required to maintain long-term production volume, which could limit free cash flow generation until FY 2030," Jefferies says. The stock is up 1.1%. (david.winning@wsj.com; @dwinningWSJ)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250212014951:0/)
