---
title: "Health Care Roundup: Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-14 17:20:00"
summary: "The latest Market Talks covering the Health Care sector. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires at 4:20 ET, 12:20 ET and 16:50 ET.0732 GMT - Chinese shares ended higher as pharmaceutical and software stocks benefitted from the AI momentum. Shenzhen Mindray Bio-Medical Electronics rose 4.3% and WuXi AppTec gained 4.6%...."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The latest Market Talks covering the Health Care sector. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires at 4:20 ET, 12:20 ET and 16:50 ET.

0732 GMT - Chinese shares ended higher as pharmaceutical and software stocks benefitted from the AI momentum. Shenzhen Mindray Bio-Medical Electronics rose 4.3% and WuXi AppTec gained 4.6%. Nomura analyst Jialin Zhang believes that investors are betting on the sector's AI potential, especially in areas like diagnosis, contract research and drug development, following the recent DeepSeek breakthrough. Amid the software makers, iFlytek gained 3.4% and Shanghai Baosight Software rose 8.0%. Property stocks fell broadly, with Poly Developments & Holdings Group down 0.8% and China Vanke dropping 2.0%. The benchmark Shanghai Composite Index ended 0.4% higher at 3346.72, the Shenzhen Composite Index rose 0.75% and the ChiNext Price Index advanced 1.8%. (sherry.qin@wsj.com)

0713 GMT - China's recent AI breakthrough could boost the efficiency of its healthcare sector and enable other potential novel services, Jefferies analyst Cui Cui says in an email. Chinese health-tech stocks are broadly higher in Hong Kong, with Alibaba Health Information up 25% and Ping An Health and Technology gaining 14%. Chinese contract drug makers WuXi AppTec and WuXi Biologics are 8.4% and 11% higher, respectively. Although these stocks aren't direct beneficiaries of the AI concept, they are likely rallying on their significant underweight positions and the fundamental shift in market sentiment after the Biosecure Act wasn't passed under the Biden administration, Cui adds. Her top industry picks in 2025 are WuXi Bio due to its better new order growth momentum and JD Health because of its AI development potential. (sherry.qin@wsj.com)

0548 GMT - Thomson Medical Group is unlikely to turn profitable in the short term, Maybank Research's Eric Ong says in a report. The Singapore-listed company posted a fiscal 1H net loss of S$12.9 million, with the magnitude of the loss catching the analyst off guard. The poor performance of its Malaysian operations and increased interest expenses related to the acquisition of FV Hospital in Vietnam were the main contributors. The healthcare-services provider probably needs more time to fully reap the benefits of maximizing its assets and enhancing margins in its key markets, Ong adds. The brokerage downgrades the stock to hold from buy and cuts the target price to S$0.05 from S$0.06. Shares are 2.2% lower at S$0.044. (ronnie.harui@wsj.com)

2343 GMT - Cochlear's lower-than-expected December-half services revenue represents a jarring miss for Wilsons analyst Shane Storey. The hearing-implant maker's services revenue was 14% lower than Storey had expected. His concern is that it comes just halfway through the likely product cycle of Cochlear's latest processor. Cochlear's services revenue jumped 29% in the year-earlier period, making on-year comparisons more challenging, but uptake of the N8 processor has slowed more quickly than anticipated, he says in a note. Wilsons is reviewing its overweight rating and A$345.00 target price on the stock. Shares are down 11% at A$272.34. (stuart.condie@wsj.com)

1158 GMT - Novartis's multiple patent expirations and limited pipeline readouts in 2025 pose major challenges for the Swiss drugmaker, UBS analysts say in a note. Novartis's heart drug Entresto, leukemia treatment Tasigna and blood clotting medicine Promacta will loose their patent in the U.S. in 2025 which will lead to a sharp deceleration in growth at mid-year, UBS analysts estimate. In addition, its expected key 2025 readout for its cardiovascular drug Pelacarsen has been delayed to 1H 2026 on a lower event rate, reducing output of clinical studies in 2025, they say. UBS downgrades its rating of the stock to neutral from buy. Shares fall 0.4% to 97.44 euros. (helena.smolak@wsj.com)

1143 GMT - Roche is set for sustainable revenue and earnings growth, driven by in-market assets coupled with broad pipeline potential, UBS analysts say in a note. The Swiss pharma giant sees near-term growth from outperforming sales of eye drug Vabysmo and multiple-sclerosis treatment Ocrevus, UBS analysts say in a note. They consider the label extension for MS drug Ocrevus HD, Alzheimer drug trontinemab and its oral obesity candidate as key catalysts of its late-stage pipeline, with a $16 billion revenue potential. UBS upgrades its rating on the stock to buy from neutral. Shares are up 1.1% at 294.80 euros. (helena.smolak@wsj.com)

1105 GMT - EssilorLuxottica looks set to benefit from innovation in technological products, Bryan Garnier analyst Cedric Rossi writes in a note. The Franco-Italian eyewear group booked fourth-quarter sales of 6.78 billion euros, 9.2% higher on year at constant currency, helped by the success of its tech products. Ray-Ban Meta wearables, which incorporate an AI assistant and cameras, reached 2 million units sold since their launch in 2023, with a strong acceleration in 2024. The analyst expects escalating sales and profit contributions from technological products across lenses, smart eyewear, audiology and medtech categories. "This new wave of technology is just beginning," the analyst says. Shares rise 5.7% to 291.60 euros. (andrea.figueras@wsj.com)

1054 GMT - EssilorLuxottica's confirmation of midterm margin guidance casts doubts, UBS analysts write in a research note. The Ray-Ban maker maintained expectations of mid-single-digit annual revenue growth through 2026 at constant exchange rates. It also targets an adjusted operating margin between 19% and 20% by the end of that period. This implies a margin expansion of nearly 100 basis points a year, which could be challenging due to the ongoing investments, UBS says. Shares are up 5.6% at 291.40 euros. (andrea.figueras@wsj.com)

1048 GMT - AstraZeneca stands out among peers with its diversified pipeline of new experimental drugs and extensions for on-market assets, UBS analysts say in a note. "Clearly some studies will fail, but 2025 is a key catalyst year with data on seven high-value new drugs," they say. Its new small-cell lung and bladder indications for cancer drug Imfinzi and its late stage trials to broaden the label of pulmonary disease treatment Breztri are promising, they say. UBS analysts estimate that the British pharma company's late-stage pipeline has potential to add a further $17.6 billion sales in 2030. UBS upgrades its rating on the stock to buy from neutral. Shares are up 1.7% at 120.00 pounds. (helena.smolak@wsj.com)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250214004150:0/)
