---
title: "News Highlights: Top Company News of the Day - Monday at 3 PM ET"
date: "2025-02-11 04:00:00"
summary: "American Express Stock Slips as CFO Says Wall Street Is Too UpbeatThe company's chief financial officer said growth in the first quarter would be slower than the fourth.Tesla Is Losing Ground Against Its Biggest Rival in ChinaBYD makes advances in AI-powered driving software while Musk's wait for approval grows.Intel's AI..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

**American Express Stock Slips as CFO Says Wall Street Is Too Upbeat**

The company's chief financial officer said growth in the first quarter would be slower than the fourth.

**Tesla Is Losing Ground Against Its Biggest Rival in China**

BYD makes advances in AI-powered driving software while Musk's wait for approval grows.

**Intel's AI Chief to Leave Chip Maker in Wake of CEO Exit**

Justin Hotard will take the top job at European telecom-gear maker Nokia.

**McDonald's U.S. Sales Drop as Customers Spend Less**

The fast-food chain had an uneven 2024, as it faced concerns about whether consumers were cutting visits because meal prices were too high.

**TD Bank to Sell Investment in Charles Schwab**

Toronto-Dominion Bank will exit its investment in Charles Schwab, the Canadian bank's first big move under new CEO Raymond Chun to shore up its business following a costly money-laundering scandal.

**Mediobanca Lifts Shareholder Return Target**

The upgrade comes after Mediobanca CEO Alberto Nagel highlighted faster growth at the bank and as the country's banking sector is in the midst of an M&A spree.

**Hyatt Agrees to Buy Playa Hotels for $2.6 Billion**

Hyatt Hotels has agreed to acquire Playa Hotels & Resorts for roughly $2.6 billion, including $900 million in debt.

**Elliott Takes Stake in Struggling Oil Giant BP**

The activist hedge fund is encouraging BP to consider more dramatic moves to restore the once venerable company's fortunes.

**Spirit AeroSystems to Declare Going Concern Amid Boeing Takeover**

Spirit AeroSystems Holdings' management cited substantial doubt about its ability to continue due to cash flow and liquidity issues.

**Behind the Oil Industry's Biggest Divorce: Chevron Versus California**

The energy giant sank the state's first successful oil well, kicking off a boom that powered California's economy for more than a century. Goodwill has since gone dry.

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250210008884:0/)
