---
title: "News Highlights: Top Energy News of the Day - Thursday at 4 AM ET"
date: "2025-02-13 17:15:00"
summary: "Chevron to Lay Off Up to 20% of Workers. Why the Oil Industry Is Slimming Down.The company's move is \"positioning us to accelerate\" cash-generation, its vice chairman tells Barron's.Oil prices end lower as U.S. crude supplies climb for a third week in a rowOil futures posted their first loss in..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

**Chevron to Lay Off Up to 20% of Workers. Why the Oil Industry Is Slimming Down.**

The company's move is "positioning us to accelerate" cash-generation, its vice chairman tells Barron's.

**Oil prices end lower as U.S. crude supplies climb for a third week in a row**

Oil futures posted their first loss in four sessions on Wednesday after official U.S. data revealed a third straight weekly climb in U.S. crude supplies.

**U.S. Crude Oil Stockpiles Rise For Third Straight Week**

U.S. crude oil inventories increased for a third consecutive week while gasoline stocks declined for the first time in three months, according to data released by the U.S. Energy Information Administration.

**OPEC Sticks to Oil-Demand View, Flags U.S. Trade Policy Risks**

The cartel stuck to its oil-demand forecast after reaffirming plans to gradually hike output from April, but said Trump's trade policy was injecting a dose of uncertainty into markets.

**Siemens Energy Net Profit Falls; Revenue, Order Backlog Rise**

The Munich-based company said net profit fell but revenue rose, as its order backlog continued to increase.

**Berkshire Buys More Occidental Stock. It Now Holds a $12.9 Billion Stake.**

Berkshire likely is losing money on its Occidental stake with Barron's estimating its cost in the low $50s.

**BP Touts 'New Beginning,' Fundamental Change in Strategy**

BP said profit fell more than expected and that it would reset its strategy, days after reports that activist hedge fund Elliott Management is pushing for change at the company.

**Elliott Builds Over $2.5 Billion Stake in Phillips 66**

The activist investor plans to push the oil refiner to consider selling or spinning off its energy-transportation business.

**Energy & Utilities Roundup: Market Talk**

Find insight on European utilities, crude futures, BP and more in the latest Market Talks covering energy and utilities.

**Elliott Takes Stake in Struggling Oil Giant BP**

The activist hedge fund is encouraging BP to consider more dramatic moves to restore the once venerable company's fortunes.

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250213004488:0-news-highlights-top-energy-news-of-the-day-thursday-at-4-am-et/)
