---
title: "BP Shares Jump on Reports Activist Hedge Fund Elliott Management Builds Stake"
date: "2025-02-10 17:39:00"
summary: "By Adam WhittakerShares in BP rose on reports that activist hedge fund Elliott Management has built up a stake in the British energy major and will push for transformational changes to boost shareholder value.In early morning European trade, BP's shares recorded their biggest one-day jump since summer 2023. They traded..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Adam Whittaker

Shares in BP rose on reports that activist hedge fund Elliott Management has built up a stake in the British energy major and will push for transformational changes to boost shareholder value.

In early morning European trade, BP's shares recorded their biggest one-day jump since summer 2023. They traded up 27.15 pence, or 6.3%, to 460.04 pence. Shares have risen 17% over the year to date and 23% higher over the past three months.

BP's shares have underperformed European and U.S. peers as strategic missteps and heavy expenditure on low-carbon assets have left the business highly leveraged and struggling to maintain shareholder returns.

There are unconfirmed reports that Elliott will push BP to undertake transformative measures designed to boost shareholder returns.

If correct, then Elliott will likely pressure BP to refocus its strategy on core oil-and-gas activities--an area where it has expertise and a strong growth portfolio, Jefferies analysts Giacomo Romeo and Kai Ye Loh write.

BP has already reversed several strategic measures associated with its former chief executive Bernard Looney, who sought to steer the oil company toward a cleaner, low-carbon future. This includes abandoning a target to cut oil-and-gas output this decade by 40% from 2019 levels.

The oil-and-gas company would likely be forced to go further. Its investments in low-carbon assets would be under threat from an activist investor calling for a strategy of reduced capital expenditure and maximized cash-flow generation, Romeo and Low write.

It could be pressured to spin out various business units to fund investments in its gas-and-oil divisions, RBC Capital Markets analysts Biraj Borkhataria and Adnan Dhanani write.

Its U.S. shale division, which is worth around $20 billion, its up to $10 billion lubricants division, and its marketing-and-retail business, valued at up to $40 billion, are potential target areas, they write.

BP Chairman Helge Lund is also regarded as vulnerable given Elliott's history of calling for management changes, both sets of analysts write.

Lund is closely associated with BP's prior low-carbon strategy and Elliott could seek to remove him. Elliott might also seek wider changes to BP's board at its annual general meeting, which is due to take place in late April or early May, Jefferies analysts write.

Write to Adam Whittaker at adam.whittaker@wsj.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250210002294:0/)
