---
title: "Funds: Vanguard Makes Biggest Cuts Ever to Its Fund Fees — Barron's"
date: "2025-02-08 10:30:00"
summary: "By Andrew WelschVanguard is taking an axe to fund fees in a sweeping expense-ratio reduction affecting dozens of mutual and exchange-traded funds.The giant asset manager is reducing expense ratios by 20% on average for 168 share classes across 87 funds. The reductions will save Vanguard investors more than $350 million..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Andrew Welsch

Vanguard is taking an axe to fund fees in a sweeping expense-ratio reduction affecting dozens of mutual and exchange-traded funds.

The giant asset manager is reducing expense ratios by 20% on average for 168 share classes across 87 funds. The reductions will save Vanguard investors more than $350 million in 2025 alone, the company says.

It's the largest annual expense ratio reduction in Vanguard's nearly 50-year history, according to the Valley Forge, Pa.-based company, which has $10.1 trillion in assets under management as of Dec. 31.

Greg Davis, Vanguard's president and chief investment officer, says the move is in keeping with the company's history of lowering costs for investors. "This is how Vanguard has operated since Bogle," he says, referring to its revered founder John Bogle.

Davis says this is the right time to slash expenses because the firm's size has ballooned thanks to an influx of new investors' money and two years of market appreciation. "Economies of scale allow you to distribute value back to shareholders," he says.

Funds that will see a cost cut include the Vanguard S&P 500 Growth ETF (VOOG), an index fund that owns growth stocks such as Nvidia and Apple. VOOG's expense ratio is dropping to 0.07% from 0.10%.

Another cut: With the actively managed Vanguard Primecap fund (VPMCX), the company is trimming expense ratios for both admiral and investor share classes to 0.29% and 0.37% from 0.31% and 0.38%, respectively. (Admiral shares have higher investment minimums, but lower expense ratios.) Primecap's investor share class has had an average annual return of 13.52% since 1984, according to Vanguard's website. Last June, Vanguard reopened the fund and its sibling, Vanguard Primecap Core (VPCCX), to new investors.

Among bond funds, Vanguard is dropping the expense ratio for the Vanguard CA Long-Term Tax-Exempt Fund (VCITX) to 0.14% from 0.17%. The move may be a welcome one for high-net-worth investors in California. VCITX invests in municipal bonds and aims to provide income that is exempt from both federal and California state income taxes.

To see all the funds with reductions, click here.

Vanguard's focus on lowering costs for investors has over the decades pressured other asset managers to lower their fees in what has been called "the Vanguard effect." The asset-weighted average mutual fund fee fell to 0.36% in 2023 from 0.87% in 2004, a decline that has saved investors billions in fund expenses, according to Morningstar's U.S. Fund Fee Study. Morningstar's 2023 study found that Vanguard had the lowest asset-weighted average expense ratio among asset managers at 0.08%, or just 8 basis points. A basis point is one-hundreth of a percentage point.

Shaving off a few basis points may not seem like a big deal in itself, but such amounts can add up over time for investors.

Davis says Vanguard is cutting expense ratios for both passive and active funds. With the fee cuts, "Many of our funds will be in the lowest cost decile across many categories," he says. Overall, 86% of Vanguard mutual fund and ETF assets are in the lowest-cost decile, according to the company.

Though the fee cuts are in keeping with Vanguard's traditional focus on low-cost investing, they come as the company sets a new course under its first outsider CEO, Salim Ramji, who joined Vanguard last year from BlackRock. Ramji has signaled a desire to expand Vanguard's fund lineup and win more customers to its wealth management offering.

In particular, the company has been growing its expertise in fixed income and adding new funds, especially actively-managed ones. Vanguard typically partners with outside managers to oversee actively managed equity funds, but relies on inhouse talent for fixed income. In recent years, it's added new passive and active funds, including a suite of active ETFs.

Investors have been increasingly favoring ETFs over mutual funds because of their transparency, ease of use, and tax efficiency. Last year, ETFs hauled in a record $1 trillion of new assets. The Vanguard S&P 500 ETF (VOO) notched a record-setting $117 billion in flows in 2024, trouncing the previous record flow for an individual ETF of $51 billion, according to Morningstar.

The lower expense ratios are also a positive influence on how portfolio managers run the funds, Davis says, adding they can be more patient because they aren't trying to offset a huge expense ratio.

"We are trying to add value and not have a big expense ratio drag," he says. "That differentiates us with a lot of our competitors in the marketplace."

Write to Andrew Welsch at andrew.welsch@barrons.com

To subscribe to Barron's, visit http://www.barrons.com/subscribe

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250203005576:0/)
