---
title: "Malaysia Fourth-Quarter Economic Growth Tops Initial Estimates"
date: "2025-02-14 12:10:00"
summary: "(04:00 GMT) *Malaysia 4Q GDP +5.0% on Year; Advance GDP +4.8%(04:00 GMT) *Malaysia 2024 GDP +5.1% Vs +3.6% in 2023(04:10 GMT) Malaysia Fourth-Quarter Economic Growth Tops Initial EstimatesBy Ying Xian WongKUALA LUMPUR--Malaysia's economy grew more strongly than expected in the final quarter of last year, supported by domestic demand, investment..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

**(04:00 GMT)** \*Malaysia 4Q GDP +5.0% on Year; Advance GDP +4.8%  
**(04:00 GMT)** \*Malaysia 2024 GDP +5.1% Vs +3.6% in 2023  
**(04:10 GMT)** Malaysia Fourth-Quarter Economic Growth Tops Initial Estimates

By Ying Xian Wong

KUALA LUMPUR--Malaysia's economy grew more strongly than expected in the final quarter of last year, supported by domestic demand, investment and exports.

Gross domestic product rose 5.0% on the year in the fourth quarter of 2024, exceeding the advance estimate of 4.8% released in January, Bank Negara said on Friday in a statement. That brings full-year growth to 5.1%, in line with advance data and up sharply from 3.6% in 2023.

Economists polled by The Wall Street Journal had forecast the final fourth-quarter print at 4.8%.

Growth in the quarter was led by the services and manufacturing sectors, while the commodities sector contracted due to lower palm and crude oil output, the bank said.

Despite global challenges, Malaysia's economy will be supported by strong investment activity, resilient consumer spending, and export growth, Bank Negara Gov. Abdul Rasheed Ghaffour said in a statement.

Domestic investment will be supported by ongoing multi-year projects and realized investments, while household spending could benefit from wage growth and government policies, he said.

Exports are expected to rise in line with the global technology upcycle, though risks stem from factors like a slowdown in Malaysia's major trading partners and trade restrictions, he added.

In 2025, the central bank expects inflation to stay manageable amid easing global costs and stable domestic demand. While policy reforms may add some price pressures, the overall impact should be contained, BNM added.

Following are select economic indicators released by the Department of Statistics:

```
   
   
                            4Q       3Q   
Gross Domestic Product      +5.0%    +5.3%   
Manufacturing               +4.4%    +5.6%   
Services Sector             +5.5%    +5.2%   
Mining Sector               -0.9%    -3.9%   
Agriculture Sector          -0.5%    +4.0%   
Construction Sector         +20.7%    +19.9%   
   
Private Sector Consumption  +4.9%    +4.8%   
Public Sector Consumption   +3.3%    +4.9%   
   
 
```

Write to Ying Xian Wong at yingxian.wong@wsj.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250213018514:0/)
