---
title: "Household Debt Grew in 4Q"
date: "2025-02-14 00:00:00"
summary: "By Matt GrossmanU.S. households took on more debt over the last three months of 2024, and consumer-credit delinquency rates increased, according to new data published by the New York Fed.U.S. household debt rose by 0.5% to $18.04 trillion in the quarter, the reserve bank said. Borrowing rose across mortgages, car..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Matt Grossman

U.S. households took on more debt over the last three months of 2024, and consumer-credit delinquency rates increased, according to new data published by the New York Fed.

U.S. household debt rose by 0.5% to $18.04 trillion in the quarter, the reserve bank said. Borrowing rose across mortgages, car loans, credit cards and student debt.

Compared with a year earlier, a greater share of consumer loans were also moving into serious delinquency, although the figures were for the most part only up modestly.

The annualized rate of flow into 90-day-or-greater delinquency rose to 1.7% for all household borrowing, up from 1.4% in the fourth quarter of 2023. For credit cards, the flow into serious delinquency climbed to 7.2%, from 6.4% a year earlier, and the flow into auto-loan delinquency increased to 3%, from 2.7% a year earlier. But the flow into student-loan delinquency declined slightly.

Elevated delinquencies on auto loans continue a concerning trend, Fed staff members said.

"High auto loan delinquency rates are broad-based across credit scores and income levels," New York Fed economic research adviser Wilbert van der Klaauw said.

Auto-delinquency rates are higher than pre-pandemic levels for consumers in almost every credit-score category, New York Fed researchers said.

Write to Matt Grossman at matt.grossman@wsj.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250213011453:0/)
