---
title: "Global Equities Roundup: Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-12 09:10:00"
summary: "The latest Market Talks covering Equities. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.2010 ET - Singapore's FTSE Straits Times Index rises 0.3% to 3871.39. Investors are waiting for the U.S. January CPI data due later today, which could be a key signal for when U.S. interest rates are..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The latest Market Talks covering Equities. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.

2010 ET - Singapore's FTSE Straits Times Index rises 0.3% to 3871.39. Investors are waiting for the U.S. January CPI data due later today, which could be a key signal for when U.S. interest rates are next expected to be cut. The market is also waiting for more concrete information about U.S. President Trump's potential trade tariffs, say Commerzbank Research analysts in a note. Among the gainers, Singtel rises 1.2%, Yangzijiang Shipbuilding adds 1.3% and Thai Beverage is up 1.0%. Meanwhile, Mapletree Industrial Trust falls 1.5% and Venture Corp. loses 0.7%.(amanda.lee@wsj.com)

2006 ET - Malaysia's benchmark Kuala Lumpur Composite Index is 0.2% higher at 1592.72. The local market outlook may remain uncertain, with risks tied to U.S. trade policy. However, clarity on tariffs may lead to mild gains on improving sentiment and reduced foreign fund selling could boost bargain hunting and rotational plays, Apex Securities says in a note. Export-focused sectors like technology, furniture and gloves could benefit from a stronger dollar, while plantation sector may see buying interest from higher CPO prices, it adds. Among gainers, YTL Power International adds 1.2% and YTL Corp. is up 1.5%. Meanwhile, Mr. D.I.Y. Group is down 0.6% and IHH Healthcare is 0.5% lower. (yingxian.wong@wsj.com)

1958 ET - Malaysia's palm-oil stocks could drop by another 7% on month to 1.48 million tons in February, due to continued low production and fewer working days, CIMB Securities analysts Ivy Ng Lee Fang and Lim Yue Jia say in a note. Malaysia's palm-oil stocks fell 7.5% on month in January. The continuation of the rainy season could further weigh on output, they add. The analysts believe CPO prices will remain firm due to low palm-oil stocks in key producing and consuming countries. CIMB maintains its 2025 CPO price forecast at MYR4,200/ton and expects stronger 4Q 2024 earnings from planters due to higher prices and stronger Indonesian production. CIMB keeps an overweight rating on Malaysia's agriculture & forestry sector, pegging SD Guthrie, IOI Corp. and Hap Seng Plantations as its top picks.(yingxian.wong@wsj.com)

1946 ET - Ley Choon Group Holdings' share price may extend its uptrend, according to a technical chart, Phillip Securities Research's Zane Aw says. The share price is consolidating within a "bullish flag" formation between S$0.055 and $0.059, which gives a bullish signal that it could sustain its uptrend, the analyst says. Also, momentum of the moving average convergence divergence indicator has been increasing, which supports the bullish view, the analyst says. Should shares rise above S$0.059 resistance level of the "bullish flag," they could extend gains to S$0.063, the analyst adds. Shares last quoted at S$0.055. (ronnie.harui@wsj.com)

1929 ET - Japanese stocks are higher as a weaker yen raises hopes for domestic earnings growth. Tech and shipping stocks are leading the gains. SoftBank Corp. is up 5.0% after its nine-month net profit climbed 7.4%. Kawasaki Kisen is up 4.0% and Mitsui O.S.K. Lines is 2.4% higher. USD/JPY is at 152.90, up from 152.49 as of Tuesday 5 p.m. Eastern time. Investors are closely watching domestic earnings as well as U.S. trade policies. Toray Industries and Yamaha Motor are scheduled to announce their quarterly results later in the day. The Nikkei Stock Average is up 0.3% at 38904.46. (kosaku.narioka@wsj.com; @kosakunarioka)

1902 ET - DoorDash has been studying its approach to autonomous food deliveries for years, but it doesn't have anything to announce at the moment, CEO Tony Xu says on a call with analysts. Still, the company is excited about all of the challenges that come with autonomy, the executive says. "I think a lot of us certainly working in the field probably either hoped for or expected this to have come sooner, but I think you're seeing just a lot of exciting existence proof points of what's to come," Xu says. So far, the company and its peers are looking into the total costs of operations that would come with it, he adds. Shares rise 5.7%, to $204.15, after the market close. (sabela.ojea@wsj.com; @sabelaojeaguix)

1849 ET - Japanese stocks may rise as a weaker yen raises hopes for domestic earnings growth. Nikkei futures are up 0.7% at 39060 on the SGX. USD/JPY is at 152.72, compared with 151.85 as of Monday's Tokyo stock market close. Japanese markets were closed Tuesday for a national holiday. Investors are focusing on earnings as well as U.S. trade policies. Toray Industries and Yamaha Motor are set to release their quarterly results later in the day. The Nikkei Stock Average closed flat at 38801.17 on Monday. (kosaku.narioka@wsj.com)

1849 ET - DoorDash's international food-delivery business is growing, CFO Ravi Inukonda says on a call with analysts. "We're growing substantially faster than peers," Inukonda says, adding that the company reached all-time high monthly active users. Its order frequency continues to grow, too, Inukonda says. The company's goal is to scale the international business to drive efficiency, which will continue to lead to more gross profit in the system, the executive says. "We are very pleased with the performance of the business so far." Shares rise 5.7%, to $204.00, in post-market trading. (sabela.ojea@wsj.com; @sabelaojeaguix)

1847 ET - Evolution Mining avoids widespread selling pressure on Australia's benchmark ASX 200 index today after posting a 1H earnings beat, but Jefferies stays cautious on the gold producer. Evolution's 1H Ebitda was 7% higher than analyst Mitch Ryan's expectations. Net debt fell to A$1.48 billion and gearing is declining. Recent cash generation, improved operational consistency, and strong commodity prices will continue to support Evolution's efforts to bring debt down, Jefferies says. "However we remain cautious ahead of crystallization of several significant projects' capital over FY 2025, required to maintain long-term production volume, which could limit free cash flow generation until FY 2030," Jefferies says. The stock is up 1.1%. (david.winning@wsj.com; @dwinningWSJ)

1837 ET - Suncorp shares are up 4.2%, the second-highest gainer on Australia's benchmark ASX 200 index, after its 1H earnings beat expectations. Suncorp reported a A$1.1 billion net profit, well above Citi's A$990 million forecast. "While most of the beat is due to favorable weather, there is also a slightly stronger result from NZ Life and slightly stronger than expected net insurance revenue growth," analyst Nigel Pittaway says. Citi, which has a neutral call on Suncorp, says the capital return to shareholders from proceeds of selling Suncorp Bank to ANZ looks in line with expectations. (david.winning@wsj.com; @dwinningWSJ)

1836 ET - Breville plans to sell directly into China and Citi thinks the appliance maker's learnings from South Korea could increase its chances of success there. Analyst Sam Teeger notes that both markets are highly digital, with 98% of Breville products in China already sold online. Breville launched in South Korea in June 2022 and it has already surpassed New Zealand in terms of gross profit. That suggests Breville may have found an approach that works well with markets that mainly transact online, Citi says. "Taking this into consideration, as well as the 32% increase in disposable income that Breville is exposed to from direct entry into China, we see this as a significant opportunity," Citi says. It retains a "neutral" call on Breville's stock. (david.winning@wsj.com; @dwinningWSJ)

1831 ET - Breville plans to sell directly into China and Citi thinks the appliances maker's learnings from South Korea could increase its chances of success there. Analyst Sam Teeger notes that both markets are highly digital, with 98% of Breville products in China already sold online. Breville launched in South Korea in June 2022 and it has already surpassed New Zealand in terms of gross profit. That suggests Breville may have found an approach that works well with markets that mainly transact online, Citi says. "Taking this into consideration, as well as the 32% increase in disposable income that Breville is exposed to from direct entry into China, we see this as a significant opportunity," Citi says. It retains a neutral call on Breville's stock. (david.winning@wsj.com; @dwinningWSJ)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250211013145:0/)
