---
title: "How Trump's Hiring Freeze Could Affect Your Trip to a National Park — WSJ"
date: "2025-02-08 23:00:00"
summary: "By Allison PohlePlanning a vacation to a national park this spring or summer has suddenly gotten complicated.The Trump administration's order to freeze hiring stopped interviews and background checks for prospective federal workers mid-process. Thousands of people who had accepted — but not yet started — positions had their offers rescinded.Many..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Allison Pohle

Planning a vacation to a national park this spring or summer has suddenly gotten complicated.

The Trump administration's order to freeze hiring stopped interviews and background checks for prospective federal workers mid-process. Thousands of people who had accepted — but not yet started — positions had their offers rescinded.

Many of those affected are seasonal workers, who can make up about 50% of a national park's staffing during peak visitation months. Without seasonal workers, permanent employees say they will need to cut visitor programs, close bathrooms and potentially rope off trails they can't safely maintain.

What services will look like at popular parks like Zion, in Utah, and Joshua Tree, in California, is unclear. Some parks had seasonal workers set to begin in April, which is becoming a more popular month for visitors. About 475,000 people visited Zion in April 2024, a 5% increase from the same month in 2023.

Park officials across the country have discussed opening with skeleton crews. But they aren't yet sure how to collect entrance fees, clean bathrooms or provide adequate emergency response, according to people familiar with these conversations.

Seasonal jobs have become even more important as the number of full-time roles has decreased. The amount of full-time equivalent park employees in the National Park Service fell 20% between the 2010 and 2023 fiscal years, according to federal data. Park visitation rose 16% over that stretch, to 325.5 million.

Many parks will remain accessible to visitors, meaning people can still enter. But park employees worry conditions might not be as safe or enjoyable as many guests expect.

"The whole situation means that parks are already behind the power curve in preparing for the summer season, and visitors are going to see impacts because of that," says Bill Wade, executive director for the Association of National Park Rangers.

Staffing uncertainty

Seasonal employees and park managers said they thought temporary positions would be exempted from the hiring freeze. But employees who had accepted offers received emails two weeks ago from a "USA staffing" government address that informed them their offers were rescinded, according to emails viewed by the Journal.

An estimated 2,000 seasonal and permanent employees received such notices, according to John Garder, senior director of budget and appropriations for the National Parks Conservation Association, an advocacy organization.

The Interior Department and the National Park Service are implementing President Trump's executive order across the federal civilian workforce, an Interior Department spokeswoman said in an emailed statement.

That executive order said, within 90 days, the Office of Management and Budget and the Department of Government Efficiency "shall submit a plan to reduce the size of the Federal Government's workforce through efficiency improvements and attrition."

Additionally, a still-to-be-determined number of employees could leave their roles pending a court ruling on the federal buyout offer. Park officials also submitted lists of employees in their probationary periods, typically those in their first year, to consider whether they should be reassigned or employed at all. This was done to comply with a memorandum from the Office of Personnel Management.

The looming expiration date for the continuing resolution funding the federal government, March 14, presents another challenge. A shutdown could result in furloughs that would further exacerbate staffing issues.

Meanwhile, decisions about how to best run each park are made at the park level based on funding received and available staffing. So operations will vary from park to park. Employees say it is nearly impossible to make definitive plans because they have no indication of what staffing will look like in the coming months.

Seasonal employees

Seasonal employees are the backbone of the National Park Service's workforce, says Jeff Mow, who most recently served as superintendent of Glacier National Park until he retired from the Park Service in 2022. They lead nature talks, clean up garbage, maintain roads and sewer systems and respond to medical emergencies, says Mow, who is now on the executive council of the Coalition to Protect America's National Parks.

In recent years, because of staffing shortages and a decline in funding, park employees felt they were doing their work with one hand tied behind their backs, Mow says. "This uncertainty with going forward, almost feels like we're tying both hands behind the back," he says.

Parks can look to volunteer groups to help bridge gaps, but there are limitations. Volunteers can't typically accept fees or handle money, meaning their roles are limited when the official workforce is diminished.

Volunteer groups typically coordinate with seasonal workers, meaning they would have no point person, even if they did want to show up, says Tyler Ray, senior director for programs and advocacy for the American Hiking Society, which brings volunteer groups to public lands to work on opening trails.

It is unwise for trails to open without people evaluating them in advance for fallen trees, washouts or other safety concerns, Ray says.

Write to Allison Pohle at allison.pohle@wsj.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250208000880:0/)
