---
title: "Global Equities Roundup: Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-11 15:47:00"
summary: "The latest Market Talks covering Equities. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.0747 GMT - Kering's results should reassure investors that trends are modestly improving, RBC Capital Markets analysts Piral Dadhania and Richard Chamberlain say in a note. The French luxury group reported 4Q revenue of 4.39 billion..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The latest Market Talks covering Equities. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.

0747 GMT - Kering's results should reassure investors that trends are modestly improving, RBC Capital Markets analysts Piral Dadhania and Richard Chamberlain say in a note. The French luxury group reported 4Q revenue of 4.39 billion euros, down 12% on year. Gucci reported a 24% decline in revenue, but retail sales improved compared with 3Q. Revenue acceleration at Gucci was less pronounced compared with peers, which suggests the relative performance gap hasn't yet closed, the analysts say. However, with the new brand CEO Stefano Cantino apparently willing to make bold changes, including changing creative director, the worst could be left behind, they say. "The timing for a potential reset remains unclear at this stage." Shares are down nearly 41% over the past 12 months. (andrea.figueras@wsj.com)

0746 GMT - Nordic markets are seen opening slightly lower, with IG calling the OMXS30 down 0.2% at around 2653. Stock markets defied new steel tariffs yesterday as European equity markets rose to new all-time highs, while U.S. stocks also moved higher, SEB analysts say in a note. President Trump's planned 25% tariffs on steel and aluminum will cover all trading partners, include processed steel products, and will enter into force on March 4. Chinese stock markets are under moderate pressure today and both U.S. and European stock market futures are pointing slightly down. The highlight of the day is testimony by Fed Chair Jerome Powell in Congress. The OMXS30 closed at 2658.29, OMXN40 at 2608.05 and OBX at 1401.79. (dominic.chopping@wsj.com)

0736 GMT - BYD's introduction of its driving assistance system--God's Eye--is marginally positive for the company and could help sustain its high market share, Jefferies analysts write in a note. The Chinese automaker plans to roll out the technology for its models in all price ranges, they note. The move will likely accelerate the adoption rate of assisted driving function in the mass market and lead to a wave of upgrades by existing users, they say. Jefferies maintains its buy rating for the stock. Shares last at HK$330.00. (jiahui.huang@wsj.com; @ivy\_jiahuihuang)

0735 GMT - South Korea's benchmark Kospi rose 0.7% to close at 2539.05, with foreign and institutional investors being net buyers. Traders largely shrugged off President Trump's additional 25% tariffs on steel and aluminum--the latest in a series of tariff threats and impositions in the first few weeks of his second term. Some analysts suggest that markets may have either preemptively priced in the impact of these policies or view them as bargaining chips. Hyundai Steel ended flat. Earnings were also in focus, with howitzer maker Hanwha Aerospace jumping 21% after strong 4Q results. USD/KRW settled 0.1% higher at 1,452.60 in Seoul onshore trading. South Korea's 10-year government bond yield was down 0.8 bp at 2.822%. (kwanwoo.jun@wsj.com)

0724 GMT - The FTSE 100 is expected to open lower as Federal Reserve Chair Jerome Powell begins a two-day testimony before Congress. The index is expected to open seven points, or 0.1%, lower, according to IG. It closed 67 points higher, or 0.8%, to 8767 points Monday. Powell is likely to indicate the Fed is in no hurry to cut interest rates further but would keep the door open for cuts, Jefferies economist Mohit Kumar says in a note. "Our view remains that we should get two more rate cuts from the Fed with the next cut likely in June." Powell will address the Senate Banking Committee at 1500 GMT and the House Financial Services Committee the same time Wednesday. (renae.dyer@wsj.com)

0723 GMT - Chinese shares ended lower, with declines led by consumer and property stocks. Consumer sentiment remained relatively weak despite China's cabinet pledges to boost spending and attract foreign investment. Poly Developments & Holdings Group dropped 2.1% and China Vanke was down 2.4%. Yonghui Superstores slid 3.05% and Yifeng Pharmacy Chain shed 1.7%. Semiconductor Manufacturing International Corp. ended 2.9% lower ahead of its 4Q results. Oil stocks broadly rose, with Cnooc up 1.7% and PetroChina rising 0.7%. The benchmark Shanghai Composite Index ended 0.1% lower at 3318.06, the Shenzhen Composite Index put off 0.5% and the ChiNext Price Index fell 1.4%. (sherry.qin@wsj.com)

0714 GMT - SGS's 2024 results show the company's strong execution toward its 2027 plan, but its outlook for the year ahead seems conservative, Bernstein's Will Kirkness and Filippo Giardini say in a research note. The Swiss testing, inspection and certification company expects organic sales growth of 5% to 7%, against Bernstein's forecast of 6.7% and consensus estimates of 5.9%, the analysts say. It expects an improvement of at least 30 basis points in its adjusted operating profit margin relative to the 15.3% margin it reported for 2024. This compares with Bernstein's estimate of 16% and the consensus of 15.7%, the analysts say. "We view the outlook as conservative and contingent on further [foreign-exchange] developments," they add. (adria.calatayud@wsj.com)

0653 GMT - The buzz around AI firm DeepSeek is shining the spotlight on companies tied to tech giant ByteDance, Daiwa analysts write in a note. DeepSeek's arrival has fueled sentiment around AI, spilling over into companies that do business with ByteDance, which has its own AI chatbot. That's brought some of the company's major listed suppliers like Accelink Technologies, a maker of optical components and photo-electronic devices, onto investors' radar, the analysts say. GigaDevice Semiconductor, a memory chip provider, is reaping the benefits, as are ByteDance suppliers Shenzhen Woer and Broadex, which respectively specialize in power cables & shrinkable tubes, and electronic components, they add. (jiahui.huang@wsj.com; @ivy\_jiahuihuang)

0645 GMT - U.S. tariffs on steel and aluminum imports will likely have a limited direct impact on Asian countries, analysts at DBS Group research write in a note. While domestic U.S. players will benefit most from the higher prices, the U.S. depends highly on Canada and Mexico, which will suffer the most, they write. The exposure for Chinese steelmakers is negligible, while aluminum products from China accounted for only 3% of U.S. imports of the metal between 2020 and 2023. Indirect impacts include an increased supply of these metals to regional markets avoiding U.S. tariffs and U.S. inflation pressure from higher material prices. (kimberley.kao@wsj.com)

0640 GMT - Outokumpu is closely monitoring developments after the U.S. imposed 25% tariffs on steel and aluminum imports, and says tariffs on imported goods are generally beneficial. The Finland-based stainless steel company says it is the second-largest stainless steel producer in the U.S., and it has a plant in Alabama. Tariffs on imported goods are helpful for the company's operations in the Americas amid significant stainless steel imports from Asia to North America, which Outokumpu says have often negatively impacted the company. It adds that imports have markedly risen in recent years and that it welcomes moves to establish a level playing field in North America. (pierre.bertrand@wsj.com)

0514 GMT - Top Glove's earnings are on the cusp of a progressive recovery this year, UOB Kay Hian analyst Jack Goh says in a note. The glove maker is likely to benefit from U.S. tariff hikes, including the additional 10% levy on Chinese goods, he writes. That could entice U.S. distributors to stop importing medical gloves from Chinese producers and instead buy from Malaysian manufacturers such as Top Glove, he says. The current risk-reward tradeoff appears fair but still provides palatable upside based on 2026 valuations, he adds. UOB KH maintains the stock's hold rating and target price of MYR1.31. Shares last closed at MYR1.22. (amanda.lee@wsj.com)

0513 GMT - BYD's latest AI-powered driving technology for Chinese car buyers mark a new breakthrough for the industry, according to Daiwa analysts Evelyn Zhang and Kelvin Lau in a research note. Peers are likely to follow suit, they write, recommending investors to focus on smart car technology supply-chain players after BYD's latest press conference. BYD is setting an example of cost reduction through engineering and technological innovation, the analysts note, adding that the industry is likely to follow BYD in accelerating innovation in engineering to cut costs. The analysts name Horizon Robotics, Huizhou Desay SV Automotive and Bethel Automotive Safety Systems as their preferred names. (tracy.qu@wsj.com)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250211001323:0/)
