---
title: "Four Inc. Appoints New Executive Vice Chair and President/CEO to Drive Next Phase of Growth"
date: "2025-02-10 22:33:00"
summary: "Four Inc. Appoints New Executive Vice Chair and President/CEO to Drive Next Phase of GrowthPR NewswireHERNDON, Va., Feb. 10, 2025HERNDON, Va., Feb. 10, 2025 /PRNewswire/ — Four Inc., a public sector IT distributor, is pleased to announce Co-Founder, President and CEO Jeff Nolan, has been appointed Executive Vice Chair of..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Four Inc. Appoints New Executive Vice Chair and President/CEO to Drive Next Phase of Growth

PR Newswire

HERNDON, Va., Feb. 10, 2025

HERNDON, Va., Feb. 10, 2025 /PRNewswire/ — Four Inc., a public sector IT distributor, is pleased to announce Co-Founder, President and CEO Jeff Nolan, has been appointed Executive Vice Chair of the Four Inc. board effective immediately. In this role, Nolan will continue to support the company by providing guidance and strategic counsel to the Four Inc. leadership team. Four Inc. Chief Operating Officer David Stewart will succeed him as President and CEO effective February 5, 2025.

Nolan is a 40-year veteran of the Government contracting and IT industry best known for pioneering public sector creative financing innovations over the past two decades. Since founding Four Inc. in 2006 with Co-founder Greta Nolan, he has played a pivotal role in the company's growth and success.

"As Greta and I evaluated potential leaders to guide Four Inc. into the future, we prioritized industry expertise, professionalism, integrity and alignment with our company's values. Through this process, we identified IT sales and distribution industry veteran David Stewart as the ideal choice--someone who embodies the experience and integrity that defines Four Inc. David has been with us for seven years, playing a crucial role in shaping and executing the company's strategic direction while providing invaluable leadership that has driven bottom-line growth. As Four Inc. continues to enhance its public sector IT distributor platform, David is the perfect leader to oversee our ongoing growth and transformation," said Jeff Nolan.

David Stewart joined Four Inc. seven years ago as VP of Corporate Development, playing a key role in the company's growth by leading strategic partnerships, identifying new market opportunities, and streamlining business operations for greater efficiency and scalability. His contributions quickly earned him the title of Chief Operating Officer.

"I'm thrilled to lead Four Inc. into its next phase of growth, supporting our public sector IT manufacturers, value-added partners, and, of course, our government customers," Stewart said. "It is our mission to provide a more value-focused and integrity-based approach in the public sector distribution market that is differentiated from today's model and provides more growth to the channel."

Prior to Four Inc., Stewart served as Vice President and General Manager of Arrow Electronics' public-sector business unit where he launched and executed its platform of services for enterprise software and hardware suppliers, value-added resellers, and channel partners, growing the business unit to over $1B of revenue. With over 40 years in the IT industry, Stewart has held key roles at IBM, Unisys, and Satellite Business Systems.

In September 2024, Four Inc announced a strategic growth investment from Sverica Capital, a leading private equity investment firm focused on investing in growth-oriented companies. This strategic partnership provides Four Inc. access to significant capital and resources enabling accelerated growth and continued delivery of exceptional value to its customers and partners.

Four Inc. is a public sector IT distributor committed to empowering its enterprise software and complex solution manufacturers with access to a diverse channel ecosystem of reselling partners, enabling them to meet the evolving technological needs and IT challenges of the public sector. Four Inc. has earned recognition as a Washington Technology "Top 100 Government Contractor" consecutively for the last nine years, and as one of the "Best Places to Work" by Virginia Business magazine for the last seven years.

For more information, visit www.fourinc.com.

Sverica Capital Management is a leading growth-oriented private equity firm that has cumulative committed capital of $2.2 billion since inception. The firm acquires, invests in and actively builds companies that are, or could become, leaders in their industries. Since inception, Sverica has followed a "business builder" approach to investing and takes an active supporting role in its portfolio companies. Sverica devotes significant internal time and resources to help its management teams develop and execute growth strategies and proactively looks for levers to pull to accelerate growth by reinvesting back into those companies. Sverica firmly believes in building businesses collaboratively that can endure for the long term by starting with a strong foundation and bringing the right people and playbook to drive reinvestment and ultimately strong returns for investors.

For more information, please visit www.sverica.com.

Media Inquiries

Marketing@fourinc.com

View original content:https://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/four-inc-appoints-new-executive-vice-chair-and-presidentceo-to-drive-next-phase-of-growth-302371323.html

SOURCE Four Inc.

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250210006287:0/)
