---
title: "Dialog Shares Plunge After Surprise Loss"
date: "2025-02-14 10:14:00"
summary: "By Ying Xian WongDialog Group shares are set for their biggest decline in nearly two decades after reporting a quarterly loss.Shares of the Malaysian oil-and-gas services provider plunged as much as 19% early Friday and were last down 18% at 1.48 ringgit. The shares are on track for their biggest..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Ying Xian Wong

Dialog Group shares are set for their biggest decline in nearly two decades after reporting a quarterly loss.

Shares of the Malaysian oil-and-gas services provider plunged as much as 19% early Friday and were last down 18% at 1.48 ringgit. The shares are on track for their biggest one-day decline since 2008.

Dialog posted a net loss of 129.5 million ringgit, equivalent to $29.1 million, for the quarter ended Dec. 31, compared with profit of 148.3 million ringgit a year earlier, according to a filing late Thursday.

The loss was primarily due to one-off impairments on its investments, as well as cost overruns, the company said. Quarterly revenue fell 21% to 680 million ringgit.

Analysts remained positive on Dialog's outlook despite the unexpected loss.

Earnings could more than double in the fiscal second half ending June from the prior half to 316.8 million ringgit, driven by stronger downstream earnings, CIMB Securities analyst Nurzulaikha Azali said in a note. Dialog also stands to benefit from an expected surge in plant turnaround activity over 2025 to 2027, she said, citing state-owned oil company Petronas's activity outlook.

Dialog's earnings should stabilize in coming quarters as losses from legacy downstream projects have been fully accounted for, and midstream tank terminal utilization remains strong above 90%, Hong Leong Investment Bank analyst Brian Chin said in a note.

Write to Ying Xian Wong at yingxian.wong@wsj.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250213018173:0/)
