---
title: "Why the bull market in stocks can live with higher inflation"
date: "2025-02-14 02:56:00"
summary: "By Christine IdzelisMarkets appear to be finding an 'equilibrium' in a strong U.S. economy, says BlackRock's Russell BrownbackThe U.S. stock market might not mind higher for longer interest rates, as long as the Federal Reserve's monetary policy is restrictive enough to keep inflation under control.Markets seem to be finding an..."
categories:
  - "MarketWatch"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "MarketWatch"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Christine Idzelis

Markets appear to be finding an 'equilibrium' in a strong U.S. economy, says BlackRock's Russell Brownback

The U.S. stock market might not mind higher for longer interest rates, as long as the Federal Reserve's monetary policy is restrictive enough to keep inflation under control.

Markets seem to be finding an "equilibrium" in a strong U.S. economy, after Treasury bond rates climbed Wednesday as traders adjusted to a hotter-than-forecast U.S. inflation report, according to BlackRock's head of global macro positioning for fixed income, Russell Brownback.

The "breadth of the strength" in Wednesday's action shows "companies do have pricing power," with consumers willing to pay sticky prices for services, said Brownback in a phone interview. While inflation hovering around 3% is "too high for the Fed to be complacent," he said "it's not a terrible outcome for the private sector" as corporate earnings continue to grow.

The U.S. stock market was higher Thursday, after the main equity indexes mostly ended lower Wednesday, as Treasury yields eased back. The S&P 500 ended SPX Wednesday just 1.1% below its record closing high notched Jan. 23, according to Dow Jones Market Data.

Federal Reserve Chair Jerome Powell, who views monetary policy as still restrictive after cutting one percentage point off its benchmark rate, decided late last month to pause its rate cuts as it keeps up its effort to bring down inflation to its 2% target.

"At a high level, equity markets care less about inflation than they worry about a Fed policy misstep aimed at reducing it too quickly," said Nicholas Colas, co-founder of DataTrek Research, in a note emailed Thursday.

"Chair Powell and the FOMC have, thus far, been patient because they firmly believe the current Fed Funds rate is restrictive enough to eventually bring inflation to heel," said Colas. "As long as that's their view, monthly inflation readings will not likely matter very much to stock prices."

The S&P 500 was up 0.6% Thursday, the Dow Jones Industrial Average DJIA gaining 0.3% and the Nasdaq Composite COMP advancing a sharp 1%, according to FactSet data, at last check.

The yield on the 10-year Treasury note BX:TMUBMUSD10Y was falling about nine basis points Thursday to around 4.54%, after jumping 10 basis points Wednesday to 4.636% to end at its highest rate since Jan. 23 based on 3 p.m. Eastern time levels, according to Dow Jones Market Data.

The 10-year Treasury yield had climbed Wednesday up for a fifth straight day, leaving it up so far in 2025 despite falling slightly in January. But after reversing course on Thursday, the 10-year Treasury rate appeared nearly flat for the year, according to FactSet data, at last check.

'Sufficiently restrictive'

Meanwhile, the federal-funds-futures market on Thursday morning showed traders were anticipating the Fed may keep its benchmark rate at the current range of 4.25% to 4.5%, until its policy meeting in September, according to the CME FedWatch Tool, at last check. Traders were pricing in potentially just once Fed rate cut this year.

The Fed's rate policy appears "sufficiently restrictive" to give it some room to be patient in case inflation comes in hotter than expected in the near term, meaning it shouldn't be forced to suddenly pivot to a rate hike, according to BlackRock's Brownback.

U.S. inflation, as measured by the consumer-price index, rose 0.5% in January at an annual pace of 3%, according to a report Wednesday from the Bureau of Labor Statistics. Core inflation, which excludes food and energy prices, increased 0.4% last month for a year-over-year rate of 3.3%.

On Thursday, fresh data from the producer-price index showed U.s. wholesale inflation rose 0.4% in January, also more than Wall Street expected.

"As long as the Powell Fed continues to believe current rates are restrictive, stocks will likely continue to shrug off" inflation readings such as the CPI report on Wednesday, said Colas.

-Christine Idzelis

This content was created by MarketWatch, which is operated by Dow Jones & Co. MarketWatch is published independently from Dow Jones Newswires and The Wall Street Journal.

[MarketWatch](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_SN20250213012082:0/)
