---
title: "Berkshire Buys More Occidental Stock. How Much It Holds Now. — Barrons.com"
date: "2025-02-12 11:14:00"
summary: "Andrew BaryBerkshire Hathaway made a small purchase of Occidental Petroleum stock on Friday, buying nearly $36 million of the energy company and lifting its big stake to about 28.3%.Berkshire bought 763,000 shares at an average price of $46.82 and now holds 264.9 million shares of Occidental, according to a Form..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Andrew Bary

Berkshire Hathaway made a small purchase of Occidental Petroleum stock on Friday, buying nearly $36 million of the energy company and lifting its big stake to about 28.3%.

Berkshire bought 763,000 shares at an average price of $46.82 and now holds 264.9 million shares of Occidental, according to a Form 4 filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission late Tuesday. Berkshire needed to file for the purchase within two business days as a holder of more than 10% of the company.

That stake is now worth $12.9 billion. Occidental shares were up 0.5% to $48.61 Tuesday. The Berkshire equity portfolio of about $300 billion is overseen by CEO Warren Buffett.

Occidental is trading not much above its 52-week low of $45 reached in December.

Barron's wrote recently that Berkshire might be a buyer of Occidental stock around a price of $46, roughly the same price at which it bought stock in December. Berkshire likely is losing money on its Occidental stake with Barron's estimating its cost in the low $50s.

Berkshire also holds $8.5 billion of 8% Occidental preferred stock and some 83 million warrants that allow it to buy the common stock at just below $60 a share.

Write to Andrew Bary at andrew.bary@barrons.com

This content was created by Barron's, which is operated by Dow Jones & Co. Barron's is published independently from Dow Jones Newswires and The Wall Street Journal.

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250211013567:0/)
