---
title: "This Wine Is a Good Aperitif. That's Not an Insult. — WSJ"
date: "2025-02-14 02:00:00"
summary: "By Lettie Teague / Illustrations by Andrea ManzatiOn a recent evening I handed a friend a glass of a particularly crisp, cold Chablis. \"This is a great aperitif,\" I said. But what, exactly, did I mean by that term?By labeling the wine as such, was I signaling some lack of..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Lettie Teague / Illustrations by Andrea Manzati

On a recent evening I handed a friend a glass of a particularly crisp, cold Chablis. "This is a great aperitif," I said. But what, exactly, did I mean by that term?

By labeling the wine as such, was I signaling some lack of seriousness — a wine fit only for the start of a meal but somehow unworthy of serving along with it? And if so, how do an aperitif wine and a non-aperitif wine differ?

When I describe a bottle as a good aperitif wine, I mean that it delivers on a specific set of criteria. For starters, it whets the appetite for whatever might follow. (The word aperitif derives from the Latin "to open," after all.) For me, an aperitif wine isn't styled to fully satisfy — and that's no shortcoming. A wine of this kind is more like the trailer to the movie than the full film, compelling, even tantalizing, yet ultimately incomplete.

A great aperitif wine should be lively and fairly light-bodied with a brisk, refreshing acidity. Champagne typically fits this description; indeed, it's the first wine that comes to my mind, most of the time, to open a meal. A Blanc de Blancs Champagne — a wine made entirely from white grapes — would be particularly good. Second place would be just about any other dry sparkling wine: a Crémant (the name for Champagne-method sparklers made in French wine regions that aren't Champagne), or a good Cava from Spain.

Other wines on my aperitif shortlist include the kind that sommeliers frequently feature in the front pages of their wine lists: high-acid white wines like Sancerre, Chablis, Etna Bianco or Grüner Veltliner; even a very dry Riesling. I would shy away from a white wine with oak aging or one with flamboyant aromas, such as Gewürztraminer or dry Muscat. I'd also eschew a wine that's high in alcohol, and I'll even put a number on that: An aperitif wine should not exceed 13% ABV.

While I'd never say no to a rosé Champagne, I'm largely indifferent to the idea of opening with a pink wine. And I can't think of many red wines I'd choose as an aperitif. It's a matter of texture and flavor and, as often as not, the already cited, problematic oak. For me, red wines have too much muchness — though I have friends who drink red wines as aperitifs all the time, and some wine professionals I contacted told me they suggest red wines as aperitifs, too.

Wine director Lee Campbell of Borgo restaurant in New York favors "quaffable" and "fruit-forward" wines with softer tannins and minerality as aperitifs. She isn't averse to a red wine if it's light bodied, served chilled and low in alcohol. (She employs the French shorthand "apéro," rather than "aperitif.) One of Campbell's favorite apéro wines, the 2023 Commonwealth Crush "Family Meal," an 11.5% ABV red, contains a blend of several white grapes, including Chenin Blanc and Sauvignon Blanc, as well as the red grape Blaufränkish. It's produced at a winery in Virginia's Shenandoah Valley in which Campbell is a partner and priced at $18 a glass and $72 a bottle on the Borgo list.

At Vida restaurant in Indianapolis, wine director and general manager Jared May offers the Domaine Rolet Crémant du Jura ($18 a glass) and the Michel Mailliard "Cuvée Gregory" Champagne ($35 a glass) as aperitifs, paired with the restaurant's tasting menu. "To me, an aperitif wine is one that shows minerality and freshness — acid — without being overly complicated or nuanced," he wrote in an email. As examples he offered extra-brut Blanc de Blancs Champagne, dry Riesling, a "salty citrusy" Albarino or unoaked Chardonnay.

One recommendation, from Jesse Carr, food and beverage director at the Virgin Hotel in New Orleans, struck me as downright radical. She often suggests kicking off a meal with a tannic, high-alcohol Zinfandel. Carr explained that she likes to start out "a bit boozier, then move to lighter items." A high-alcohol wine, she added, often makes diners "crave more food."

Though that is perhaps a business-savvy move for a restaurant, I can't imagine opening with a 16%-alcohol Zinfandel and still managing to drink another glass of anything. But then I don't live in a town nicknamed the Big Easy.

Still, I was grateful for Carr's perspective — more proof, if I needed it, that "aperitif" can mean different things to different drinkers. I've decided the term is ultimately neither insult nor praise, but simply, wonderfully promising. After all, if a good aperitif wine signals anything, it is more good wines — ideally even more interesting and complex — yet to come.

Email Lettie at wine@wsj.com.

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250213012902:0/)
