---
title: "Global Forex and Fixed Income Roundup: Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-11 15:43:00"
summary: "The latest Market Talks covering FX and Fixed Income. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.0743 GMT - The dollar trades steady ahead of a testimony from Federal Reserve Chair Jerome Powell later. Powell is expected to sound cautious about cutting interest rates, though there's mounting pressure from..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The latest Market Talks covering FX and Fixed Income. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.

0743 GMT - The dollar trades steady ahead of a testimony from Federal Reserve Chair Jerome Powell later. Powell is expected to sound cautious about cutting interest rates, though there's mounting pressure from President Trump to lower rates, Swissquote Bank analyst Ipek Ozkardeskaya says in a note. U.S. growth remains solid, the jobs market healthy, and inflation sticky, she says. Trump's growth-boosting policies and tariff threats could also increase inflation, she says. A cautious stance from Powell would potentially boost the dollar. Powell speaks before the Senate Banking Committee at 1500 GMT. He will then address the House Financial Services Committee Wednesday. The DXY dollar index trades flat at 108.356. (renae.dyer@wsj.com)

0740 GMT - Trump's recent comments on Treasurys seem concerning to Pepperstone's Michael Brown but tariffs still appear to be front of mind for market participants. Trump suggested Sunday that the government's efficiency team found irregularities that could mean the U.S.'s debt obligations are lower than thought, potentially implying that some payments could be disregarded, the senior research strategist says. "Much more of this talk and participants will have little-to-no choice but to attach a higher risk premium to U.S. debt, and perhaps even be forced to sell Treasury holdings," Brown says. That said, markets remain focused on tariffs for now even as fatigue on that front seems to be settling in. U.S. Treasurys took the comments in stride, with little changes on Monday, or Tuesday overnight. The 10-year Treasury yield rises 1.5 basis points to 4.509%, according to LSEG. (emese.bartha@wsj.com)

0724 GMT - The FTSE 100 is expected to open lower as Federal Reserve Chair Jerome Powell begins a two-day testimony before Congress. The index is expected to open seven points, or 0.1%, lower, according to IG. It closed 67 points higher, or 0.8%, to 8767 points Monday. Powell is likely to indicate the Fed is in no hurry to cut interest rates further but would keep the door open for cuts, Jefferies economist Mohit Kumar says in a note. "Our view remains that we should get two more rate cuts from the Fed with the next cut likely in June." Powell will address the Senate Banking Committee at 1500 GMT and the House Financial Services Committee the same time Wednesday. (renae.dyer@wsj.com)

0713 GMT - The Federal Reserve will be closely monitoring to ensure that inflation expectations do not spiral out of control, analysts at LBBW say in a note. This confirms the view of the German bank's analysts that the Fed will not lower the fed funds rate again until the end of this year. "If the next interest rate move actually goes up in view of the inflation risks, the yields on long-term U.S. government bonds are likely to skyrocket," they say. The 10-year U.S. Treasury yield, which rose 1 bp on Monday, increases by 2 bps to 4.513%, according to LSEG. Money markets are pricing in about 50 bps of Fed rate cuts for this year, according to LSEG. (emese.bartha@wsj.com)

0711 GMT - It may be too soon to assess the global economic impact of U.S. tariff policies, Alex Grassino of Manulife Investment Management writes in a note. Investors broadly expect U.S. policies to ultimately result in a much more scaled-back, realistic version of the tariffs that have been announced so far, the global chief economist says. The Fed may cut policy interest rates more than expected in the medium term due to the tariff impacts, but the argument for that remains unclear and more nuanced depending on whether tariffs have less of an effect on the U.S. economy than expected, Grassino adds. If economic indicators like wage growth slow further, the Fed could focus less on inflation and proceed at a more measured rate of easing, he says. (kimberley.kao@wsj.com)

0707 GMT - Recent market reactions highlight the difficulty investors face in assessing policies such as tariffs, according to Schroders Investment Management economists in a commentary. "Financial markets are not waiting to discover all the details before pricing possible impacts and this is leading to increased volatility across asset classes," they note. Regarding the impact of tariffs on China, the country is likely to devalue its currency to offset the effects, as it did during the first trade conflict, if a compromise is not reached soon, the economists say. However, the rapid imposition of tariffs also increases the likelihood of a larger fiscal stimulus to support domestic growth in China, they add. (tracy.qu@wsj.com)

0645 GMT - U.S. tariffs on steel and aluminum imports will likely have a limited direct impact on Asian countries, analysts at DBS Group research write in a note. While domestic U.S. players will benefit most from the higher prices, the U.S. depends highly on Canada and Mexico, which will suffer the most, they write. The exposure for Chinese steelmakers is negligible, while aluminum products from China accounted for only 3% of U.S. imports of the metal between 2020 and 2023. Indirect impacts include an increased supply of these metals to regional markets avoiding U.S. tariffs and U.S. inflation pressure from higher material prices. (kimberley.kao@wsj.com)

0640 GMT - It does seem as if participants have become rather fatigued when it comes to the whole tariff issue, Pepperstone's Michael Brown says in a note. This was the case Monday, following a fresh round of trade measures by U.S. President Trump on steel and aluminum as well as the issue of reciprocal tariffs, the senior research strategist says. The U.S. administration's focus is now apparently on trade itself, as opposed to "simply chucking tariffs around" as a negotiating strategy aimed at furthering the President's political aims, Brown says. That said, tariffs still seem to be front of mind for market participants, he says. (emese.bartha@wsj.com)

0634 GMT - USD/INR falls sharply after hitting a record high on Monday, raising market speculation for possible foreign-exchange intervention by India's central bank to prop up the rupee. USD/INR is at 86.88 after falling to 86.64 earlier, compared with 87.47 as of Monday 5 p.m. Eastern time. The pair rose to a record high of 87.99 on Monday. The Reserve Bank of India on Friday cut its policy rate for the first time in nearly five years to support the economy. Any signs of slower growth and cooler inflation may raise expectations for further rate cuts and the rupee's depreciation. Investors will be closely watching the country's inflation data due Wednesday. (kosaku.narioka@wsj.com; @kosakunarioka)

0609 GMT - USD/INR could stabilize ahead of Indian PM Modi's meeting with Trump this week, DBS strategist Philip Wee says. ""The Reserve Bank of India intervened strongly to pull USD/INR back to last Friday's level of 87.5," he says, after the beleaguered rupee touched a new record low near 88 to the dollar on Monday as Trump's steel and aluminum tariffs announcement dampened market sentiment. Wee thinks Modi will seek to avoid being involved in a trade war by addressing Trump's criticisms about high tariffs on U.S. goods, limited market access and his desire for India to ramp up purchases of U.S. defence and energy products. Modi might also face questions on the weakness of the rupee, which has depreciated around 5% against the dollar since the start of 2024 and printed a series of record lows, he adds. USD/INR last at 86.88 after earlier touching 86.65. (fabiana.negrinochoa@wsj.com)

0544 GMT - The events of the past two weeks indicate an extended period of uncertainty around trade policy that will likely command much attention from investors, says Lazard's chief market strategist Ronald Temple. "What is clear is that U.S. inflation will likely be boosted slightly by the tariffs imposed so far, while U.S. GDP might be slightly reduced," he says in a note. A 10% tariff on all Chinese goods is also unlikely to be the end of the story, he says, expecting a broader, larger set of tariffs that will likely have a material effect on growth and inflation. The situation remains very fluid, which makes estimating the impact of the new tariffs against China difficult, he adds. (monica.gupta@wsj.com)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250211001303:0/)
