---
title: "CARIBBEAN UTILITIES COMPANY, LTD ANNOUNCES DECLARATION OF DIVIDEND ON CLASS A ORDINARY SHARES"
date: "2025-02-12 07:25:00"
summary: "CARIBBEAN UTILITIES COMPANY, LTD ANNOUNCES DECLARATION OF DIVIDEND ON CLASS A ORDINARY SHARESCanada NewsWireGRAND CAYMAN, Cayman Island, Feb. 11, 2025CARIBBEAN UTILITIES COMPANY, LTD. CLASS A ORDINARY SHARES ARE LISTED FOR TRADING IN UNITED STATES FUNDS ON THE TORONTO STOCK EXCHANGE.GRAND CAYMAN, Cayman Island, Feb. 11, 2025 /CNW/ - Caribbean Utilities..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

CARIBBEAN UTILITIES COMPANY, LTD ANNOUNCES DECLARATION OF DIVIDEND ON CLASS A ORDINARY SHARES

Canada NewsWire

GRAND CAYMAN, Cayman Island, Feb. 11, 2025

CARIBBEAN UTILITIES COMPANY, LTD. CLASS A ORDINARY SHARES ARE LISTED FOR TRADING IN UNITED STATES FUNDS ON THE TORONTO STOCK EXCHANGE.

GRAND CAYMAN, Cayman Island, Feb. 11, 2025 /CNW/ - Caribbean Utilities Company, Ltd. ("CUC" or "the Company") announced today that the Board of Directors has declared a dividend of US$0.185 per Class A Ordinary Share, or an annualized dividend of US$0.74 per share. The dividend will be payable on March 14, 2025 to shareholders of record on February 28, 2025.

The principal activity of the Company is to generate, transmit and distribute electricity in its licence area of Grand Cayman, Cayman Islands pursuant to a 20-year Transmission & Distribution ("T&D") Licence and a 25-year non-exclusive Generation Licence (the "Generation Licence" and together with the T&D licence, the "Licences") granted by the Cayman Islands Government (the "Government", "CIG"). The T&D Licence, which expires in April 2028, contains provisions for an automatic 20-year renewal and the Company has reasonable expectation of renewal until April 2048. The Generation Licence expires in November 2039. Further information is available at www.cuc-cayman.com.

Caribbean Utilities Company, Ltd. ("CUC" or "the Company"), on occasion, includes forward-looking statements in its media releases, Canadian securities regulatory authorities filings, shareholder reports and other communications. Forward-looking statements include statements that are predictive in nature, depend upon future events or conditions, or include words such as "expects", "anticipates", "plan", "believes", "estimates", "intends", "targets", "projects", "forecasts", "schedule", or negative versions thereof and other similar expressions, or future or conditional verbs such as "may", "will", "should", "would" and "could". Forward-looking statements are based on underlying assumptions and management's beliefs, estimates and opinions, and are subject to certain risks and uncertainties surrounding future expectations generally that may cause actual results to vary from plans, targets and estimates. Such risks and uncertainties include but are not limited to operational, general economic, market and business conditions, regulatory developments and weather conditions. CUC cautions readers that actual results may vary significantly from those expected should certain risks or uncertainties materialize or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect. Forward-looking statements are provided for the purpose of providing information about management's current expectations and plans relating to the future. Readers are cautioned that such information may not be appropriate for other purposes. The Company disclaims any intention or obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise except as required by law.

SOURCE Caribbean Utilities Company, Ltd.

View original content: http://www.newswire.ca/en/releases/archive/February2025/11/c5768.html

/CONTACT:

Claire Stafford, Company Secretary, Phone: (345) 949-5200, email: Investor@cuc.ky

Copyright CNW Group 2025

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250211012830:0/)
