---
title: "Telecom Italia Aims to Resume Shareholder Remuneration"
date: "2025-02-13 15:48:00"
summary: "By Mauro OrruTelecom Italia said it planned to resume shareholder remuneration next year as the group expects it will continue to generate cash and reduce debt through 2028.The Italian telecommunication company said late Wednesday that it would aim to return about 350 million euros ($363.4 million) to shareholders next year..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Mauro Orru

Telecom Italia said it planned to resume shareholder remuneration next year as the group expects it will continue to generate cash and reduce debt through 2028.

The Italian telecommunication company said late Wednesday that it would aim to return about 350 million euros ($363.4 million) to shareholders next year from the sale of its submarine-cable unit Sparkle. The group also said it would seek to return approximately 500 million euros in 2027 and roughly 600 million euros in 2028.

Telecom Italia had halted shareholder remuneration years ago as it sought to cut debt and invest in its core business. Now, the group said it would invest around 6 billion euros through 2028 in 5G, cloud technology and artificial intelligence.

The company said it expects annual revenue growth of about 3% on average through 2027 from 13.7 billion euros in 2024. Meanwhile, organic earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization after leases--a key measure of profitability--are expected to rise 6% to 7% per year through 2027 from 3.6 billion euros in 2024.

Telecom Italia's targets for the coming years come after the company posted revenue and earnings above analysts' expectations for the fourth quarter.

The group reported 3.81 billion euros in organic revenue, up 2.1% on year. Organic earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization after leases climbed 7.3% to 927 million euros.

Analysts had forecast organic revenue of 3.78 billion euros and organic Ebitda after leases of 926 million euros, according to a market consensus provided by the company.

Write to Mauro Orru at mauro.orru@wsj.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250213003771:0/)
