---
title: "Global Equities Roundup: Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-11 20:45:00"
summary: "The latest Market Talks covering Equities. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.1245 GMT - SGS's 2027 strategy implementation is showing promising results, Vontobel analyst Michael Foeth says in a research note. The Swiss testing, inspection and certification company's strategy 2027 execution led to solid profitability improvement and..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The latest Market Talks covering Equities. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.

1245 GMT - SGS's 2027 strategy implementation is showing promising results, Vontobel analyst Michael Foeth says in a research note. The Swiss testing, inspection and certification company's strategy 2027 execution led to solid profitability improvement and strong free cash flow generation, the analyst says. This allowed for balance sheet deleveraging and an increased option for investors to receive more shares instead of a cash dividend, he says. Shares trade 6.5% higher at 97.08 Swiss francs. (nina.kienle@wsj.com)

1156 GMT - SGS's outlook for 2025 looks encouraging, although broadly in line with consensus, Jefferies analysts say in a research note. The Swiss testing, inspection and certification company expects to deliver 5% to 7% organic growth, compared with consensus estimates at above 5.9%, the analysts say. SGS aims for a more than 30 basis points margin improvement, against consensus at more than 40 basis points. "Overall results, guidance and commentary we think will be viewed as encouraging," they say. Shares trade 6.1% higher at 96.72 Swiss francs.(nina.kienle@wsj.com)

1154 GMT - EU laws that force technology giants to moderate content online and shore up users' data privacy unfairly target U.S. companies, U.S. Vice President JD Vance says during the AI Action Summit in Paris. Vance mentions the European Union's Digital Services Act, which obliges companies to moderate platforms for illegal content and tackle misinformation online. "It is one thing to prevent a predator from preying on a child on the internet, quite different to prevent a grown man or woman from accessing an opinion that the government thinks is misinformation," he says. He also notes the bloc's data protection rules force tech companies into paying "endless" legal fees and that "for some, the easiest way to avoid the dilemma has been to simply block EU users in the first place." (edith.hancock@wsj.com)

1140 GMT - U.S. President Donald Trump's administration is troubled by foreign governments seeking to regulate U.S. technology giants, Vice President JD Vance says during the AI Action Summit in Paris. Some foreign governments are considering tightening the screws on U.S. tech companies with international footprints, Vance says. "America cannot and will not accept that. I think it is a terrible mistake not just for the United States of America but for your own countries," he adds. (edith.hancock@wsj.com)

1058 GMT - EssilorLuxottica's purchase of Cellview Imaging marks the second acquisition in ophthalmology diagnostics for the European eyecare giant as it pushes into this and other subcategories, RBC Capital Markets' Piral Dadhania says in a note. The Ray-Ban maker said it is buying Canadian startup Cellview, which offers diagnostics via retinal imaging, for an undisclosed sum. The deal follows EssilorLuxottica's July acquisition of Heidelberg Engineering, another ophthalmology diagnostics company, and strengthens its offering, RBC says. EssilorLuxottica is pursuing a structural expansion into selective ophthalmology subcategories, with a move into diagnostics already in progress and potentially in cataracts and contact lenses down the line, the analyst says. Shares rise 1.1%. (adria.calatayud@wsj.com)

1053 GMT - Merck KGaA's potential acquisition of SpringWorks Therapeutics puts Merck's healthcare business strategy into question, Equita analyst Davide Marchesin says in a note. The German pharma company previously said it would focus on licensing agreements rather than full acquisitions for its healthcare business. "Taking over SpringWorks Therapeutics would not be in line with such statement, increasing the market skepticism about Merck's strategy," the analyst says. Shares are down 0.1% at 134.85 euros.(helena.smolak@wsj.com)

1052 GMT - Merck KGaA's potential acquisition of SpringWorks Therapeutics could boost its cancer-treatment pipeline, but the profitability of the deal is questionable, Equita analyst Davide Marchesin says in a note. "Therapeutics is generating over 350 million euros of annual revenues and it is loss making, therefore one critical question would be if the acquisition would be accretive from year one," the analyst says. The German pharma company's acquisition of the U.S. biopharmaceutical company would be one of the biggest pharma deals for Merck in recent years, potentially amounting to around 4 billion euros with a peak sales potential of over 1.0 billion euros in a few years, he says. Merck's shares are up 0.4% at 135.45 euros. (helena.smolak@wsj.com)

1049 GMT - India's Sensex fell 1.3% to nearly a two-week low of 76,293.60, marking the lowest levels since Jan 29. With tariff fatigue setting in, attention is shifting to U.S. CPI data due this week, writes Eugene Leow of DBS Group Research in a note. Zomato fell 5.2%, Tata Steel lost 2.9%, and Bajaj Finserv dropped 2.7%. Bharti Airtel edged up 0.2%. (kimberley.kao@wsj.com)

1048 GMT - BP recognizes that it has work to do to improve investor confidence, Quilter Cheviot's Maurizio Carulli writes. The company is reviewing its capital expenditure and share buyback policy. The British oil and gas company's poor share price performance in 2024 has dragged on shareholder confidence, the analyst adds. As returns come into focus, BP's guidance for divestments worth $3 billion in 2025 can be viewed as a positive, he adds. Shares trade up 0.2% to 466 pence. (adam.whittaker@wsj.com)

1043 GMT - Rheinmetall told investors in a pre-close call on Monday that it is on track to reach its 2024 guidance of 10 billion euros in sales and an operating margin of 15%, with defense growth expected to rise by 50%, Alpha Value's Saima Hussain says. The German arms maker expects operating free cash flow to surpass forecasts due to pre-payments, she writes in a research note. The company's order backlog will reach 54 billion euros for the end of 2024, instead of an initial estimate of between 60 billion and 70 billion euros, due to a delay in the award of two German digital contracts, which were postponed to this year. That also means Rheinmetall's 2025 backlog is expected to soar to 80 billion euros, she notes. Shares are up 0.4% at 734.2 euros. (cristina.gallardo@wsj.com)

1042 GMT - Rheinmetall's confirmation on Monday that it submitted a nonbinding offer for Thyssenkrupp Marine Systems' marine business signals its intent to position itself in the naval defense business, Alpha Value analyst Saima Hussain says. This would create competition for France's Naval Group, partly owned by Thales, she notes. Rheinmetall is still waiting for feedback from TKMS, which seems to prefer a spinoff instead, Hussain adds. Shares in Rheinmetall are up 0.2% at 732.4 euros. (cristina.gallardo@wsj.com)

1041 GMT - Amsterdam-listed stainless steel company Aperam doesn't expect to be significantly affected by tariffs imposed by the U.S. on steel and aluminum imports, the company says. Aperam has limited exposure to the tariffs as most of its U.S. revenue comes from its recycling business, which isn't affected by the levy, the company says. Most of its sales are domestic in the areas it operates in, and Aperam's stainless-steel exports from Europe to the U.S. are minimal and specialized, it adds. This means customers can't easily source them elsewhere, the company says. Should third-party imports to the U.S. get deflected to Europe, Aperam says it expects the European Commission to adopt measures to protect the interests of its domestic steel producers. Shares trade 1.4% lower to 28.72 euros. (pierre.bertrand@wsj.com)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250211004408:0/)
