---
title: "U.S. Inflation Data Weighs on S&P 500, Dow Industrials — WSJ"
date: "2025-02-13 04:13:00"
summary: "By Angus Berwick and Vicky Ge HuangThe first inflation readout for 2025 is rattling investors.The consumer-price index rose 3% in January from a year earlier, an acceleration from December's rate, and faster than economists had expected. The WSJ Dollar Index and Treasury yields rose after the CPI figures were released,..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Angus Berwick and Vicky Ge Huang

The first inflation readout for 2025 is rattling investors.

The consumer-price index rose 3% in January from a year earlier, an acceleration from December's rate, and faster than economists had expected. The WSJ Dollar Index and Treasury yields rose after the CPI figures were released, while stocks turned lower.

January CPI often reflects big price adjustments made by businesses to kick off the year. So today's report marks an important test of the Federal Reserve's progress in its fight to tame inflation. The Fed held rates steady at its meeting last month after cutting interest rates by a full percentage point in 2024.

"This is data that's telling the Fed you're fine where you are, and if anything, there might be some risk that rates aren't high enough," said Andy Schneider, senior U.S. economist at BNP Paribas, of the CPI report.

Fed Chair Jerome Powell, meanwhile, delivered a second day of testimony on Capitol Hill. He told senators that Wednesday's inflation report offers the latest reminder that the central bank has made "great progress" towards bringing inflation closer to its goal but, "we're not quite there yet." On Tuesday, he said the Fed doesn't need to rush to cut rates since the economy is doing well.

In recent market action:

* The S&P 500 and Dow industrials fell after the CPI was released. The Nasdaq Composite edged higher in afternoon trading.
* The 10-year U.S. Treasury yield jumped above 4.6% as traders dialed back bets on rate cuts.
* Hong Kong's Hang Seng Index shot up over 2.6%, buoyed by AI-related excitement and progress in an Alibaba-Apple partnership. Japan's Nikkei 225 and the Stoxx Europe 600 rose 0.4% and 0.1%, respectively.
* Bitcoin traded around $97,000.
* CVS Health shares surged after the healthcare company reported earnings that beat Wall Street's expectations, and projected improved results in 2025.

Coming up:

* Earnings are expected from companies including Cisco and Robinhood.

This item is part of a Wall Street Journal live coverage event. The full stream can be found by searching P/WSJL (WSJ Live Coverage).

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250212011665:0/)
