---
title: "BP Earnings Hit 4-Year Low. How the Elliott Stake Is Affecting the Stock. — Barrons.com"
date: "2025-02-11 23:34:00"
summary: "By Brian SwintBP is in a hole. The question is how it can stop digging.The U.K. oil and gas major promised a deep overhaul of its strategy following quarterly earnings that fell to a four-year low and missed expectations. The new plans, which will be unveiled at a Capital Markets..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Brian Swint

BP is in a hole. The question is how it can stop digging.

The U.K. oil and gas major promised a deep overhaul of its strategy following quarterly earnings that fell to a four-year low and missed expectations. The new plans, which will be unveiled at a Capital Markets Day on Feb. 26, follow reports over the past few days that activist investor Elliott Management has taken a stake in the company.

That piles the pressure on CEO Murray Auchincloss to get BP back on track after years of underperforming rivals Shell, Exxon Mobil, Chevron, and TotalEnergies.

The problem is that investors are still likely to see Auchincloss as largely responsible for the pivot away from oil and gas to lean harder into the energy transition. He was chief financial officer under the previous CEO, who laid out the path in 2020.

Although it isn't clear how big Elliott's stake in BP is, reports that he has bought the stock pushed up BP's American depositary receipts by 6.7% on Monday. The London-traded stock was down 1.3% after the results. BP's American depositary receipts fell 0.6% when the market opened Tuesday.

"We now plan to fundamentally reset our strategy and drive further improvements in performance, all in service of growing cash flow and returns," Auchincloss said in a statement. "It will be a new direction for BP."

For the fourth quarter, BP reported earnings per share of $0.07 per share, compared with estimates for $0.08. Underlying replacement cost profit — an industry standard measure — fell to $1.17 billion from $2.27 billion in the third quarter. Analysts polled by the company were expecting $1.26 billion. Full-year RCC was the lowest since 2020.

The company cited weak refining margins, turnarounds at plants that lowered output and raised costs, as well as corporate charges for the decline in profit in the last three months of last year.

Investors have been concerned that BP's elevated debt levels may put its dividends and share buybacks at risk. The company said it would still launch a new $1.75 billion buyback, but will review its 2025 target for the investor event later this month.

"We continue to expect BP to reduce its buyback program," RBC analysts led by Biraj Borkhataria wrote in a note after the results.

Elliott Management has a record of targeting energy companies, pushing for different strategies and new executives. Separately, The Wall Street Journal reported late Monday that Elliott has built a $2.5 billion stake in Phillips 66, a U.S. oil refining firm.

Write to Brian Swint at brian.swint@barrons.com

This content was created by Barron's, which is operated by Dow Jones & Co. Barron's is published independently from Dow Jones Newswires and The Wall Street Journal.

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250211002325:0/)
