---
title: "Minera Alamos Acquires Shares of Sabre And Files Early Warning Report"
date: "2025-02-08 06:37:00"
summary: "Minera Alamos Acquires Shares of Sabre And Files Early Warning ReportCanada NewsWireTORONTO, Feb. 7, 2025TORONTO, Feb. 7, 2025 /CNW/ - Minera Alamos Inc. (the \"Company\" or \"Minera Alamos\") announces that it has filed an early warning report pursuant to the provisions of Canadian securities legislation (the \"Early Warning Report\") in..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Minera Alamos Acquires Shares of Sabre And Files Early Warning Report

Canada NewsWire

TORONTO, Feb. 7, 2025

TORONTO, Feb. 7, 2025 /CNW/ - Minera Alamos Inc. (the "Company" or "Minera Alamos") announces that it has filed an early warning report pursuant to the provisions of Canadian securities legislation (the "Early Warning Report") in connection with the completion of its previously announced acquisition of Sabre Gold Mines Corp. ("Sabre") by way of a plan of arrangement (the "Arrangement"). Minera acquired 110,388,801 common shares of Sabre, being all of their issued and outstanding common shares of Sabre pursuant to the Arrangement.

Prior to the completion of the Arrangement, Minera did not own any common shares of Sabre. Accordingly, the acquisition represents an increase in Minera's beneficial ownership and control of common shares of Sabre from 0% to 100%.

Pursuant to the Arrangement, each issued and outstanding common share of Sabre was acquired and exchanged for 0.693 of a Minera Alamos common share, resulting in the issuance of 76,499,114 Minera Alamos common shares in the aggregate.

Minera's and Sabre's head office address is 55 York Street, Suite 402, Toronto, ON, M5J 1R7. A copy of the Early Warning Report is available on Sabre's SEDAR+ profile at www.sedarplus.ca and may also be obtained by contacting Victoria Vargas de Szarzynski, Minera's VP Investor Relations, at 289-242-3599.

About Minera Alamos Inc.

Minera Alamos is a gold production and development Company. The Company has a portfolio of high-quality Mexican assets, including the 100%-owned Santana open-pit, heap-leach mine in Sonora that is currently going through the start-up of operations at the new Nicho Main deposit. The 100%-owned Cerro de Oro oxide gold project in northern Zacatecas has considerable past drilling and metallurgical work completed and the proposed mining project is currently being guided through the permitting process by the Company's permitting consultants. The La Fortuna open pit gold project in Durango (100%-owned) has a positive, robust preliminary economic assessment (PEA) completed, and the main Federal permits are in place. Minera Alamos is built around its operating team that together brought three open pit heap leach gold mines into successful production in Mexico over the last 14 years. Minera Alamos also wholly-owns the Copperstone mine and associated infrastructure in La Paz Country, Arizona, an advanced development asset with a permitted plan of operations that can be developed in parallel with planned project advancements in Mexico.

The Company's strategy is to develop very low capex assets while expanding the projects' resources and continuing to pursue complementary strategic acquisitions.

SOURCE Minera Alamos Inc.

View original content: http://www.newswire.ca/en/releases/archive/February2025/07/c5404.html

/CONTACT:

For Further Information Please Contact: Minera Alamos Inc., Doug Ramshaw, President, Tel: 604-600-4423, Email: dramshaw@mineraalamos.com, Website: www.mineraalamos.com; Victoria Vargas de Szarzynski, VP Investor Relations, Tel: 289-242-3599, Email: vvargas@mineraalamos.com

Copyright CNW Group 2025

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250207011279:0/)
