---
title: "Global Equities Roundup: Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-12 07:36:00"
summary: "The latest Market Talks covering Equities. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.1836 ET - Breville plans to sell directly into China and Citi thinks the appliance maker's learnings from South Korea could increase its chances of success there. Analyst Sam Teeger notes that both markets are highly..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The latest Market Talks covering Equities. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.

1836 ET - Breville plans to sell directly into China and Citi thinks the appliance maker's learnings from South Korea could increase its chances of success there. Analyst Sam Teeger notes that both markets are highly digital, with 98% of Breville products in China already sold online. Breville launched in South Korea in June 2022 and it has already surpassed New Zealand in terms of gross profit. That suggests Breville may have found an approach that works well with markets that mainly transact online, Citi says. "Taking this into consideration, as well as the 32% increase in disposable income that Breville is exposed to from direct entry into China, we see this as a significant opportunity," Citi says. It retains a "neutral" call on Breville's stock. (david.winning@wsj.com; @dwinningWSJ)

1831 ET - Breville plans to sell directly into China and Citi thinks the appliances maker's learnings from South Korea could increase its chances of success there. Analyst Sam Teeger notes that both markets are highly digital, with 98% of Breville products in China already sold online. Breville launched in South Korea in June 2022 and it has already surpassed New Zealand in terms of gross profit. That suggests Breville may have found an approach that works well with markets that mainly transact online, Citi says. "Taking this into consideration, as well as the 32% increase in disposable income that Breville is exposed to from direct entry into China, we see this as a significant opportunity," Citi says. It retains a neutral call on Breville's stock. (david.winning@wsj.com; @dwinningWSJ)

1818 ET - Lyft's CEO David Risher plans to take part in the robotaxi race by launching around 1,000 Mobileye powered-robotaxis in Dallas as early as 2026, the executive says on a call with analysts. The company is getting financing from Japanese trading and investment firm Marubeni. "They're expensive assets," Risher says, adding that since, most cars get less valuable over time, the company needed an expert in financing its robotaxis. Last week, rival Uber Technologies' shares declined after the company reported lower-than-expected income for the fourth quarter and the market questioned the company's plans to compete in the robotaxi race. Lyft shares drop 10% to $12.85. Uber shares fall 2.5% to $75. (sabela.ojea@wsj.com; @sabelaojeaguix)

1803 ET - Lyft's outlook for the first quarter was mainly affected by a pricing war with its competitors since the fourth quarter, together with people taking less, and shorter rides after the holidays, CFO Erin Brewer says on a call with analysts. The company had to lower prices, and if the price environment stays sustainably lower, that could translate into a low-single digit percentage point impact to the ride-sharing company's gross bookings in 2025, Brewer says. Brewer adds that the end of a long exclusive partnership with Delta Air Lines, who recently tapped Uber in a new deal, will also hit rides and gross bookings by 1% to 2%, starting in the second quarter. Shares fall 10% to $12.95 after hours. (sabela.ojea@wsj.com; @sabelaojeaguix)

1800 ET - Commonwealth Bank's bear at Citi doesn't see anything in the lender's first-half result to justify its recent share-price run. Analyst Brendan Sproules acknowledges that CBA's cash earnings were about 1.5% ahead of his forecast, but tells clients in a note that the overall result is solid rather than strong. He adds that asset quality and loan growth were the key positives, but points out that management expects both to moderate as the economy slows. Citi has a last-published sell rating and A$91.50 target price on the stock, which is at A$162.16 ahead of the open. (stuart.condie@wsj.com)

1742 ET - Bravura Solutions' latest guidance upgrade should be well received by investors given how swiftly it follows the last, E&P analyst Olivier Coulon says. He tells clients in a note that he expects the Australian software developer's shares to outperform even though its first-half underlying profit fell short of forecasts. Coulon points out that the improved earnings guidance range is 12% higher at the midpoint than that issued by the company only in December. The latest upgrade appears to be at least partly revenue led, he adds. E&P has a positive rating and A$2.21 target price on the stock, which is at A$2.31 ahead of the open. (stuart.condie@wsj.com)

1730 ET - CSL's vaccines business is in need of a shot in the arm. UBS says CSL's Seqirus unit missed its 1H revenue forecast by 6% as U.S. demand weakened again. Analyst Laura Sutcliffe thinks elevated flu cases in FY 2025 will drive a recovery in immunization rates the following year, but probably not back to FY 2024 levels. "In general, margins tend to scale with sales in vaccines," UBS says. Government contracts for H5 (bird flu) pandemic readiness are a bright spot. UBS estimates revenue from these contracts at US$150 million in 2H, building on an estimated in US$60 million in 1H. Still, UBS believes the percentage drop in FY 2025 vaccine sales will be in the mid-to-high teens when these contracts are excluded. (david.winning@wsj.com; @dwinningWSJ)

1717 ET - The a2 Milk Company's bull at Citi is even more positive on the infant-formula manufacturer's local-label prospects in China following a visit to the country. Analyst Sam Teeger tells clients in a note that manufacturing dates on tins are relatively more recent than those he saw a year ago, which he takes as a sign of underlying product sell-through. He acknowledges that he only visited 10 supermarkets and baby stores, but says that this evidence is consistent with recent port data. Citi has a buy rating and A$7.33 target price on the stock, which is at A$5.78 ahead of the open. (stuart.condie@wsj.com)

1713 ET - Gilead is poised to build on expanding demand for its HIV products. The company said in its 4Q earnings report that it plans to launch another HIV treatment after sales in the segment climbed 16% in the past quarter and was the primary driver of Gilead's overall sales growth. Higher demand, elevated average realized price and favorably inventory dynamics are making HIV a profitable segment right now, and helping the biopharma firm offset losses from its dwindling Covid product. (katherine.hamilton@wsj.com)

1706 ET - Consumers in the Americas are spending on travel, Avis Budget Group said in the company's 4Q earnings report. Travel demand is strong and there was a lot of spending during the December holidays and MLK Day in the U.S., CEO Joe Ferraro said. Leisure activity is expected to continue through 2025 and Avis anticipates making at least $1 billion in adjusted EBITDA. Avis is well-positioned to meet that demand and just implemented a strategy to accelerate its fleet rotation, Ferraro said. (katherine.hamilton@wsj.com)

1636 ET - Australian stock futures are pointing to a flat open for the S&P/ASX 200. ASX futures are barely moved ahead of Wednesday's session, suggesting that investors may be waiting on a flurry of company earnings reports before making significant moves. Ahead of the session, the country's largest bank, Commonwealth, reported a stronger-than-expected first-half profit and dividend. Power provider AGL cut its dividend as its first-half underlying profit fell 6.5%. U.S. stocks finished mixed after Fed Chair Jerome Powell said that the bank did not need to rush rate cuts. The DJIA added 0.3%, the S&P 500 was flat, and the Nasdaq Composite lost 0.4%. (stuart.condie@wsj.com)

1629 ET - There's been much talk about deal making taking off...only to sputter, or as Blackstone CFO Michael Chae puts it, in a nod to Irish playwright Samuel Beckett, "Everyone is sort of waiting for Godot." But Chae, speaking at BofA Securities Financial Services Conference, says transactions are picking up. "We see this pipeline really filling and taking off, perhaps more second quarter than first quarter in terms of announced signed deals," he says. (maria.armental@wsj.com; @mjarmental)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250211012857:0/)
