---
title: "PBF Energy's Northern California Refinery Remains Offline After Feb. 1 Fire — OPIS"
date: "2025-02-13 03:05:00"
summary: "PBF Energy's 157,000 b/d Martinez refinery in Northern California remained offline Wednesday following a Feb. 1 fire that injured six workers, a company spokesman said on Wednesday.All of the refinery's operating units are down but for utility and environmental systems, the spokesman, Michael Karlovich, told OPIS in an email.He said..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

PBF Energy's 157,000 b/d Martinez refinery in Northern California remained offline Wednesday following a Feb. 1 fire that injured six workers, a company spokesman said on Wednesday.

All of the refinery's operating units are down but for utility and environmental systems, the spokesman, Michael Karlovich, told OPIS in an email.

He said flaring could occur at the facility over the next several weeks as "as process units are drained and purged."

The California Department of Industrial Relations has begun an investigation into the first and has restricted access to the section of the facility where the fire occurred to its investigators, Karlovich said.

He also said refinery personnel are continuing to assess equipment and ensure the safety of the area.

PBF said the incident occurred when a "leak of hydrocarbon material" caught fire during maintenance preparations.

Contra Costa Health on Tuesday Tuesday, warned local health officials that "chemicals and combustion byproducts from a recent fire at the refinery included chemicals that can cause cancer, as well as heart and lung disease."

CCH is one of several local agencies that oversees the Martinez refinery's operations.

During the incident, the wind blew most of the toxic smoke north of the refinery and away from populated areas, CCH Health Officer Ori Tzvieli said in a statement.

"This could have been much worse," Tzvieli said. "We got lucky this time. But our community shouldn't have to rely on luck."

CCH said combustion byproducts from the fire included particulate matter from smoke, benzene, hydrogen sulfide, sulfur dioxide and xylene.

"[We] will continue to work cooperatively with all agency inspections and investigations," Karlovich said, adding that CCH and the Bay Area Air District have 24/7 access to the refinery.

The Martinez refinery is one of three remaining traditional refined fuel producers facilities in Northern California and makes both California-compliant gasoline and diesel.

This content was created by Oil Price Information Service, which is operated by Dow Jones & Co. OPIS is run independently from Dow Jones Newswires and The Wall Street Journal.

* Reporting by Frank Tang, ftang@opisnet.com; Editing by Jeff Barber, jbarber@opisnet.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250212011372:0/)
