---
title: "Energy & Utilities Roundup: Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-08 05:50:00"
summary: "The latest Market Talks covering Energy and Utilities. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires at 4:20 ET, 12:20 ET and 16:50 ET.1538 ET - Oil futures fall for a third consecutive week as the market grappled with complications from postponed U.S. tariffs on oil from Canada and Mexico, Chinese retaliatory..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The latest Market Talks covering Energy and Utilities. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires at 4:20 ET, 12:20 ET and 16:50 ET.

1538 ET - Oil futures fall for a third consecutive week as the market grappled with complications from postponed U.S. tariffs on oil from Canada and Mexico, Chinese retaliatory tariffs on U.S. oil and gas, OPEC+ sticking with its plan to start raising output in April and an oversized buildup in U.S. crude oil stocks. "Some of the impact this week has been more from the growth in inventories," says Kenny Zhu of Global X. "I think folks have been worried about what the tariff impact might actually be, so there's a bit of front-running of imports to try to bring in those barrels in front of the trigger date. Luckily that was pushed back." WTI settles up 0.6% at $71 a barrel Brent up 0.5% at $74.66 a barrel, and are down 2.1% and 1.3%, respectively, on the week. (anthony.harrup@wsj.com)

1352 ET [Dow Jones]--The number of rigs drilling for oil in the U.S. edged up by one this week to 480, and was down by 19 from the same time last year, oil services company Baker Hughes reports. Rigs drilling for natural gas rose by two to 100, compared with 121 a year ago. The EIA estimates that U.S. oil production will average 13.5 million barrels a day this year versus 13.2 million b/d in 2024, with growth slowing to less than 1% in 2026. While oil companies appreciate that the Trump administration is friendly to the industry with deregulation and faster permitting, "that's only going to do so much," says Kenny Zhu of Global X. "If the market fundamentals aren't there, the prices and projections for demand are not where they need to be, I think that will ultimately be the driving factor." (anthony.harrup@wsj.com)

1127 ET - Eventual U.S. tariffs on imports of Canadian and Mexican oil--of 10% and 25%, respectively--would alter North American crude flows significantly, sending some oil elsewhere and raising regional prices, Dylan White of Wood MacKenzie says in a note. The steeper tariffs on Mexico would likely move heavy Maya crude away from the U.S. to Europe and Asia. And while Canadian crude would continue to be consumed by U.S. midcontinent and Gulf Coast refiners, the Trans Mountain Pipeline would facilitate increased shipments of Canadian crude to Asia, he says. "Beyond that, we expect the higher tariff costs will get backed into wider crude differentials in Mexico and Canada."(anthony.harrup@wsj.com)

0916 ET - Oil prices are on track for a third consecutive week of losses amid uncertainty over the impact of Trump administration policies including threatened tariffs on U.S. suppliers Canada and Mexico, and sanctions on producers such as Iran and Russia. If WTI settles below $70 a barrel, "we could be set for lower prices but there are reasons for optimism," Alex Hodes of StoneX says in a note. "Markets are still digesting the actual supply disruptions that could occur due to Iranian and Russian sanctions." WTI is up 0.6% at $71.02 a barrel, and Brent is 0.5% higher at $74.66 a barrel. (anthony.harrup@wsj.com)

0808 ET - At a time when the U.S. is becoming a less amicable trading partner, Canada's Keyera and AltaGas sign a deal that opens doors to new energy end-markets for Canadian oil. Keyera, a midstream operator, and AltaGas, an energy infrastructure firm, sign a 15-year tolling contract that increases energy export capacity by 12,500 barrels of liquified petroleum gas a day. With the looming threat of US tariffs, which would include a 10% tax on Canadian energy, this deal allows for Keyera to search out new markets for its energy, offering "its customers more diversified market access for LPGs, including premium Asian markets." (adriano.marchese@wsj.com)

0733 ET - Orsted's new business plan is limited in scope and there appears to be limited headroom for execution issues, JPMorgan analysts William W. Wade and Joanna Li write. Seeking to blow past its recent poor performance, the Danish renewable-energy company updated its medium-term strategy alongside earnings. The plan doesn't feature fresh equity or new self-help measures but mainly involves capital-expenditure reductions and related cuts to Ebitda and capacity targets. The bank expects credit ratings to remain pressured and it is also concerned about political risk further affecting Orsted's U.S. business on top of any spillover effects from wider U.S.-Danish tensions. Shares trade 2.1% lower at 293.80 Danish kroner. (dominic.chopping@wsj.com)

0648 ET - Adnoc Gas has strong growth potential, its domestic margins are strengthening, and there is room for dividend growth, analysts at HSBC write. A new 10-year contract with Emirates Water and Electricity Company will boost earnings, they write. The analysts raise the stock's target price to 4.20 dirham from 4.10 dirham due to the attractive terms of the new contract. Shares trade down 1.13% at 3.50 dirham. (adam.whittaker@wsj.com)

0236 ET - U.S. tariffs are likely to have a wide-ranging impact on multiple assets, according to Benoit Anne, managing director at MFS Investment Management, in a commentary. Global equities have not yet factored in significant policy risks, anticipating negative implications from tariffs on stock prices, Anne notes. In terms of fixed income, the latest development is likely to further reduce the U.S. Federal Reserve's ability to ease policy going forward, given the potential one-off adjustment effect on U.S. domestic prices, Anne adds. Furthermore, Canadian energy producers and Midwest refiners are likely to face challenges due to tariffs, Anne says. Legal uncertainties, potential extensions to other regions, and government negotiations are also closely watched, Anne notes. (tracy.qu@wsj.com)

1836 ET - Beach Energy's stock had rallied more than 40% ahead of its 1H result only for the company to disappoint again. Morgans downgrades Beach to hold, from add, because it sees 2H being tougher and says management still has important questions to answer. "A largely in line 1H result, with a dividend miss, continued troubles at Waitsia, narrowed FY25 guidance that could trigger consensus downgrades, and capex skew that puts pressure on 2H free cash flow generation," analyst Adrian Prendergast says. Beach expects first gas sales from its Waitsia Stage 2 project in Western Australia in 4Q, but the project remains tricky, Morgans says. (david.winning@wsj.com; @dwinningWSJ)

1732 ET - Beach Energy's desire to pay a progressively higher dividend stokes doubt at Citi. Analyst James Byrne says a progressive dividend is inconsistent with a tight payout range and the nature of a commodity facing business with lumpy capex. Progressive dividends can work for exploration and production companies for a few years. Then the free cash flow runs out, Citi says, such as when as the energy price cycle turns. Paying out 40% of free cash flow in FY 2025 equates to a A$0.07/share final dividend. Beach's interim dividend was A$0.03/share. "With our FY 2026 free cash flow only supporting A$0.08/share in total (50% payout, US$61/bbl Brent) there isn't any room to be more 'progressive' on dividends if the overall FY 2025 payout is in the 40-50% range," Citi says. (david.winning@wsj.com; @dwinningWSJ)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250207010837:0/)
