---
title: "British American Tobacco Misses Expectations, Flags Regulatory Pressure Ahead"
date: "2025-02-13 15:37:00"
summary: "(07:00 GMT) *British American Tobacco PLC FY EPS GBP1.360(07:00 GMT) *British American Tobacco PLC FY Net Pft GBP3.07B(07:00 GMT) *British American Tobacco PLC FY Oper Pft GBP2.74B(07:00 GMT) *British American Tobacco PLC FY Rev GBP25.87B(07:00 GMT) *British American Tobacco PLC FY Pretax Pft GBP3.54B(07:00 GMT) *British American Tobacco PLC FY..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

**(07:00 GMT)** \*British American Tobacco PLC FY EPS GBP1.360  
**(07:00 GMT)** \*British American Tobacco PLC FY Net Pft GBP3.07B  
**(07:00 GMT)** \*British American Tobacco PLC FY Oper Pft GBP2.74B  
**(07:00 GMT)** \*British American Tobacco PLC FY Rev GBP25.87B  
**(07:00 GMT)** \*British American Tobacco PLC FY Pretax Pft GBP3.54B  
**(07:00 GMT)** \*British American Tobacco PLC FY Pre-items, Pretax Pft GBP7.28B  
**(07:00 GMT)** \*British American Tobacco PLC FY Adj EPS GBP3.625  
**(07:00 GMT)** \*British American Tobbaco 2024 Rev Down 5.2%  
**(07:01 GMT)** \*British American Tobbaco 2024 Organic Rev Up 1.3%  
**(07:01 GMT)** \*BAT 2024 New Categories Organic Rev Up 8.9%  
**(07:02 GMT)** \*BAT 2024 Total Combustibles Organic Revenue Up 0.1%, Lifted by Pricing  
**(07:03 GMT)** \*BAT Raises Dividend to 240.24p Vs 235.52p  
**(07:04 GMT)** \*BAT Plans GBP900M Share Buyback in 2025  
**(07:05 GMT)** \*BAT Sees Global Tobacco Industry Volume Down Around 2%  
**(07:06 GMT)** \*BAT Sees 2025 Revenue Growth Around 1%  
**(07:06 GMT)** \*BAT 2025 Adjusted Profit From Operations Growth 1.5-2.5%  
**(07:07 GMT)** \*BAT: 2025 Performance Expected to Be 2H Weighted  
**(07:09 GMT)** \*BAT To Face Challenges in 2025 With Litigation in Canada  
**(07:11 GMT)** \*BAT Sees Significant Regulatory, Fiscal Headwinds in Bangladesh and Australia  
**(07:37 GMT)** British American Tobacco Misses Expectations, Flags Regulatory Pressure Ahead

By Michael Susin

British American Tobacco missed market expectations in 2024 and warned that regulatory and fiscal headwinds will impact sales of its conventional cigarettes.

The FTSE 100 cigarette maker--which houses the Kent, Dunhill and Lucky Strike brands--said pretax profit for 2024 was 3.54 billion pounds ($4.41 billion) compared with a loss of 17.06 billion pounds in 2023, when it booked a 27.6 billion pounds one-off impairment related to its U.S. business.

New categories products--which includes vapour/heated products and oral pouches--revenue rose 2.5% to 3.42 billion pounds from 3.26 billion pounds, below market consensus of 3.50 billion pounds. The segment is key for British American Tobacco as it seeks to achieve 50% of revenue from smokeless products by 2035.

Revenue for the group as a whole fell 5.2% to 25.87 billion pounds, dragged by the sale of its businesses in Russia and Belarus in September 2023 and foreign-exchange headwinds.

Revenue was forecast at 26.11 billion pounds, according to consensus provided by the company.

Adjusted profit from operations--one of the company's preferred metrics--came in at 11.89 billion pounds, down 0.2% from a year ago and missing a company-provided consensus forecast of 11.95 billion.

The board declared a dividend of 240.24 pence a share, up from 235.52 pence. It also announced a 900 million pounds share buyback program for 2025.

"In 2025, while we expect significant regulatory and fiscal headwinds in Bangladesh and Australia to impact our combustibles performance, I am confident that we will progressively build on our delivery as we shift from investment to deployment," Chief Executive Tadeu Marroco said.

Write to Michael Susin at michael.susin@wsj.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250213002493:0/)
