---
title: "Expedia Stock Surges on Strong Earnings. What Analysts Are Saying. — Barrons.com"
date: "2025-02-08 03:12:00"
summary: "By Mackenzie TatananniShares of Expedia Group were climbing Friday after the online travel agency posted fourth-quarter earnings that topped Wall Street expectations.The stock surged 15% to $198.32 on the heels of a strong report for the December quarter. Adjusted earnings of $2.39 a share beat forecasts of $2.09, while revenue..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Mackenzie Tatananni

Shares of Expedia Group were climbing Friday after the online travel agency posted fourth-quarter earnings that topped Wall Street expectations.

The stock surged 15% to $198.32 on the heels of a strong report for the December quarter. Adjusted earnings of $2.39 a share beat forecasts of $2.09, while revenue of $3.18 billion came in ahead of the $3.07 billion consensus estimate.

Total gross bookings in the fourth quarter increased by 13% from the previous year, while booked room nights and lodging gross bookings each rose 12%. Bookings for Expedia's business-to-consumer and business-to-business segments accelerated 9% and 24%, respectively, in the quarter.

In a note Thursday, Truist Securities analysts wrote that the "high-quality" earnings report was "very encouraging into 2025." Highlights included sequential acceleration in Expedia's B2B business from the previous year, strong results in Europe and the Asia Pacific, and bookings growth among the company's three core brands.

In spite of the many positives, the analysts noted that U.S. domestic leisure trends remain discouraging at a macro level and reiterated a price target of $163 and a Hold rating on the shares.

Benchmark analysts raised their price target on Expedia stock to $225 from $200 and reiterated a Buy rating. In their view, Expedia's reinstated quarterly dividend of 40 cents a share, starting in March, was "the cherry on top."

The analysts also nodded to the appointment of eBay's Scott Schenkel as chief financial officer. "We suspect there is some hope that guidance will be both more consistent and, ultimately, conservative going forward, " they wrote.

As Expedia stock gained on Friday, shares of competitors also were on the rise. Booking Holdings and Tripadvisor were up 2.2% and 3.8%, respectively.

Barron's named Expedia a stock pick in October, saying that, while there were plenty of options on the market, Expedia had a more attractive valuation than Booking and showed promising growth in its B2B division.

Write to Mackenzie Tatananni at mackenzie.tatananni@barrons.com

This content was created by Barron's, which is operated by Dow Jones & Co. Barron's is published independently from Dow Jones Newswires and The Wall Street Journal.

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250207006178:0/)
