---
title: "Humana Reports Earnings Tuesday. Medicare Advantage Is the Problem. — Barrons.com"
date: "2025-02-11 06:04:00"
summary: "By Josh Nathan-KazisInvestors are looking for an end to the Medicare Advantage blues when the health insurer Humana reports its fourth-quarter results on Tuesday morning.Humana shares have lost a quarter of their value over the past 12 months. They are down roughly 40% since the start of 2023 in response..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Josh Nathan-Kazis

Investors are looking for an end to the Medicare Advantage blues when the health insurer Humana reports its fourth-quarter results on Tuesday morning.

Humana shares have lost a quarter of their value over the past 12 months. They are down roughly 40% since the start of 2023 in response to concern about the viability of the company's vital Medicare Advantage business, which sells government-funded, privately-managed health plans to U.S. seniors.

Humana is virtually a pure play on Medicare Advantage, so an industrywide increase in medical spending by U.S. seniors over the past year or so has rocked the company. The consensus call among analysts tracked by FactSet is that earnings per share for 2024 will come in at $16.14, compared with $26.09 in 2023.

The company has warned investors not to expect earnings growth in 2025. According to FactSet, analysts aren't looking for earnings per share to top 2023 levels until 2028.

The stock is up 2.4% since President Donald Trump won the 2024 presidential race, while the S&P 500 has risen 4.9%.

Analysts expect Humana to report sales of $28.8 billion for the fourth quarter and a loss of $2.21 per share. They anticipate a 91.2% medical loss ratio, an important metric that tracks the proportion of premiums paid out to cover medical expenses, up from 90.5% in the same quarter last year, and 87.3% in the same quarter in 2022.

When Humana reported its fourth-quarter 2023 earnings in early 2024, it set off a selloff across managed care, as investors began to see how seniors had been seeking more care, and insurers had been unable to adjust. Things haven't looked up much since then.

This earnings season has been mixed for managed-care stocks. UnitedHealth Group reported a weaker-than-expected fourth quarter for its insurance division in mid January, raising concern that the Medicare Advantage malaise would persist into 2025. Cigna also fell sharply after its earnings fell short of Wall Street's expectations, as well as management's forecasts, because medical costs were higher than expected.

Elevance, by contrast, reported strong earnings, sending the stock higher as the picture for its Medicaid business seemed to improve.

CVS Health reports its results on Wednesday.

Write to Josh Nathan-Kazis at josh.nathan-kazis@barrons.com

This content was created by Barron's, which is operated by Dow Jones & Co. Barron's is published independently from Dow Jones Newswires and The Wall Street Journal.

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250210011500:0/)
