---
title: "Global Equities Roundup: Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-11 04:18:00"
summary: "The latest Market Talks covering Equities. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.1517 ET - The estimated funding level of pension plans sponsored by S&amp;P 1500 companies increased 1 percentage point in January to 110% as a result of an increase in equity markets and discount rates, according..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The latest Market Talks covering Equities. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.

1517 ET - The estimated funding level of pension plans sponsored by S&P 1500 companies increased 1 percentage point in January to 110% as a result of an increase in equity markets and discount rates, according to consulting firm Mercer LLC. As of the end of January, the plans' estimated aggregate surplus increased by $23 billion, to $158 billion, compared with a $135 billion surplus at the end of December, Mercer said. "Markets will be closely watching for the economic impact of the recently announced tariffs and other potential executive actions," said Mercer partner Matt McDaniel. "The Fed continues to take a 'wait and see' approach with interest rates leaving plan sponsors a lot of uncertainty to process to start the new year." (jennifer.williams@wsj.com; @jenkayw)

1425 ET - Shopify may come out unscathed from a tariff situation, says RWM Commerce Consulting CEO Rick Watson. "I am not sure it significantly changes the game for Shopify or its merchants. They have not been overly advantaged or disadvantaged," he says. The company has come out in support of free trade, since 15% of its business is cross-border, they benefit more from fewer walls in place. "It's a similar statement to what you might have seen someone like eBay say in years past," he says. Watson notes that chaos in general is not good for any business, so it could create some corporate indecision in the short-term, but this should settle down at some point." (adriano.marchese@wsj.com)

1419 ET - Threats by President Trump to apply or raise tariffs on trading partners around the globe have traders jumping into gold futures — with the front-month contract closing up 1.6% to $2,914.30 a troy ounce. It's a new record for front-month gold, cracking the $2,900 barrier for the first time. Trump's latest threats, a 25% tariff on steel and aluminum sent to the U.S., looks to have an outsized impact on Canada and Mexico, with Canada selling the U.S. roughly 60% of the aluminum it imports. But markets remain unclear on if this is happening at all. "Recent events have taught us all not to take anything for granted and it's still possible that carve-outs or exemptions will be agreed," says Capital Economics in a note.SPDR Gold rises 1.6%. (kirk.maltais@wsj.com)

1341 ET - Expedia surged 17% on Friday after beating on 4Q top and bottom lines and reinstating its quarterly dividend, but D.A. Davidson says 1Q initial guidance was mixed. As a result, analysts Tom White and Wyatt Swanson say they're trimming forecasts on incremental foreign exchange headwinds, but bumping up targets on an improved underlying growth profile. The analysts say their neutral rating takes into account "the company's solid category position in an overall healthy/resilient leisure travel market," and its leading position in an expanding B2B market. But, they question the pace of recovery in Expedia's Vrbo and Hotels.com brands as well as and the company's ability "to meaningfully close its overall profitability/margin gap vs. peers." Expedia is up 0.3% to $202.81.(sabela.ojea@wsj.com; @sabelaojeaguix)

1229 ET - Light & Wonder had a recent legal victory in Australia that alleviates concern that litigation might affect previously sold "Dragon Train" games in the country, Benchmark's Mike Hickey says in a note. A court denied rival Aristocrat Technologies' request for an interlocutory injunction concerning the game in litigation over intellectual-property infringement. Light & Wonder says the ruling is focused on its content pipeline for this year and beyond and doesn't require action from customers, says Hickey. Benchmark has a buy rating on the shares, which were up 10% at $96.93. (mark.long@wsj.com)

1225 ET - Spectrum Brands' near 8% selloff on Thursday was likely due to signals in 1Q results suggesting the separation of its Home and Personal Care business is not imminent, UBS says in a note. The analysts say the maker of products like Black Flag insecticide and George Foreman grills delivered a solid 1Q and reiterated its FY25 guidance across the board. They also say they were encouraged by the company's commentary around the tariff situation and believe the outlook remains achievable. "We think the risk/reward continues to skew to the upside." Spectrum Brands is off 4% to $75.04. (sabela.ojea@wsj.com; @sabelaojeaguix)

1150 ET - Capri Holdings shows "no clear evidence of a near-term turnaround," says BofA Securities in a note, adding that the stock will likely remain rangebound through 2026 which should be a transitional year for the company. Store closures and foreign exchange will negatively impact F2026 sales, and wholesale is expected to decline low double-digits, the analysts say. They also believe a sale of non-core brands Versace and Jimmy Choo would allow management to narrow its focus and allocate more resources to Michael Kors. BofA reinstates a neutral rating on the stock with a target price of $23 a share. Capri rises 3.5% to $22.44. (sabela.ojea@wsj.com; @sabelaojeaguix)

1047 ET - Biotechnology is likely to stay resilient despite tariffs, Benchmark analyst Bruce Jackson expects. While development costs may rise, there could be more mergers and acquisitions in the industry if there is less scrutiny from the Federal Trade Commission under the Trump administration. Pharma companies looking to bolster pipelines could also drive merger activity. The metabolic, central nervous system and oncology biotech industries are expected to grow while vaccines and rare diseases are more likely to face challenges. (katherine.hamilton@wsj.com)

1043 ET - Tariffs could lead to shortages and higher prices for pharmaceuticals and medical devices, Benchmark analyst Bruce Jackson says. Trump has said his tariffs are intended to bring jobs back to the U.S., but pharmaceutical companies may be hesitant to build manufacturing capacity domestically, especially in areas where profit margins are thin, like generic drugs and hospital supplies, Jackson says. It could also take up to two years to start making medical equipment in the U.S., and up to five years to launch drug manufacturing facilities, Jackson adds. (katherine.hamilton@wsj.com)

1014 ET - Hydro One's rich valuation keeps BofA Securities bearish on the stock, despite praise for the Canadian power company. BofA reinstates coverage with an underperform call and C$44 price target, noting the current valuation premium based on expected 2026 EPS is 47% higher than the next-highest premium of the companies it covers. It says catalysts for any multiple expansion from here are further-dated than its 12-month price objective. Still, BofA argues Hydro One is well run and has among the strongest earnings and rate base growth visibility in the sector. Shares now down 0.6% at C$45.29. (robb.stewart@wsj.com)

1006 ET - McDonald's says an E. coli outbreak that federal health officials linked to the burger chain is largely behind it. Currently, the only stores being hurt by food-safety concerns are those located near where the outbreak began in the Rocky Mountain region, CEO Chris Kempczinski says on a call with analysts. "We expect to have fully recovered by the beginning of Q2," he adds. Kempczinski also says McDonald's has strong marketing programs and new menu innovations, which are expected to drive results in the new year. McDonald's is up 5% in early trading. (connor.hart@wsj.com)

0954 ET - McDonald's continues to work on opportunities to push new beverages in new and existing stores, as consumers are interested in the products and they deliver appealing profits. The company says in a 4Q earnings call that it remains committed to its beverage-oriented CosMc's test, and has learned that smaller locations with drive-throughs have performed better than some bigger stores. The company said recently it will close some underperforming CosMc's units as it refines the offering. McDonald's is up 4.7% in early trading. (heather.haddon@wsj.com; @heatherhaddon)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250210008971:0/)
