---
title: "Financial Services Roundup: Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-14 17:20:00"
summary: "The latest Market Talks covering Financial Services. Exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires at 4:20 ET, 12:20 ET and 16:50 ET.0807 GMT - NatWest's guidance for 2025 lack some punch, Hargreaves Lansdown says in a market comment after the British bank's results. The lender's expectations for this year align with consensus..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The latest Market Talks covering Financial Services. Exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires at 4:20 ET, 12:20 ET and 16:50 ET.

0807 GMT - NatWest's guidance for 2025 lack some punch, Hargreaves Lansdown says in a market comment after the British bank's results. The lender's expectations for this year align with consensus estimates. "The buzz around the sector and better-than-expected results in the final quarter mean investors will have been hoping to get a punchier outlook," analyst Matt Britzman writes, adding this might cause weakness in early exchanges. In the longer term, the decent set of results--which slightly beat expectations, closing a 2024 that saw a seismic positive sentiment shift--set up the bank for another good year. Shares open 1.4% lower at 431 pence, bringing its year to date gains to around 7%. (elena.vardon@wsj.com)

0742 GMT - NatWest reported a solid set of results and upgraded guidance that aligns with consensus, Keefe, Bruyette & Woods says in a research note after the British lender's quarterly print. It guided for a return on tangible equity between 15% and 16% for 2025, while consensus estimates stood at 15.7%. NatWest also guided for total income for the year in the 15.2 billion to 15.7 billion pound range, in line with expectations of 15.5 billion pounds. The lack of share-buyback announcement might be slightly disappointing, analysts write, noting the 15.5 pence-a-share dividend was better than expected. (elena.vardon@wsj.com)

0502 GMT - RHB Bank's earnings outlook could remain positive with 4Q 2024 profit expected between MYR750 million-MYR800 million, slightly lower than 3Q's record result of MYR833 million, Hong Leong IB analyst Chan Jit Hoong says in a note. Loan growth is on track to exceed 4.5%, supported by a strong retail banking segment, he notes. However, net interest margin may slip 5bps sequentially amid typical year-end competition, he reckons. While non-interest income is expected to soften on weak trading income, fee income may remain healthy as RHB continues to generate arbitrage forex returns from its liability management initiatives, he adds. Hong Leong maintains a buy rating on RHB Bank and keeps target price at MYR7.55. Shares are 0.3% higher at MYR6.56. (yingxian.wong@wsj.com)

0325 GMT - Bank Rakyat Indonesia (Persero)'s credit costs may increase this year owing to its clean-up of asset-quality issues, Bahana Sekuritas analysts say in a research report. Management guided for credit costs to rise to 3.0%-3.2% in 2025 versus 2024 guidance of less than 3%. Key assumptions include its bank-only segment carrying out IDR38 trillion-40 trillion of write-offs, while the rest will be allocated to subsidiaries, the analysts note. The bank expects a substantial increase in credit costs in 1Q owing to seasonality and fewer working days affecting collection efforts together with likely liquidity pressures. The analysts lower the stock's target price to IDR5,500.00 from IDR5,600.00 with an unchanged buy rating. Shares are 1.5% lower at IDR3,930.00. (ronnie.harui@wsj.com)

0115 GMT - Computershare's price-to-earnings is well above its 15-year average, suggesting to Morgan Stanley analyst Andrei Stadnik that the stock's re-rating may have come ahead of schedule. He points out in a note to clients that the share-registry provider's margin income--interest earned on cash held for dividends--is likely to fall from 80% of pretax profit to about 65% in fiscal 2026. Stadnik says the stock is more sensitive to rate moves than either banks or insurers, with EPS growth into fiscal 2026 looking limited. MS lifts its target price 18% to A$36.60 but maintains an equal-weight rating on the stock. Shares are up 0.7% at A$42.875. (stuart.condie@wsj.com)

0010 GMT - Insurance Australia Group's reported insurance margin should beat the 13.5%-15.5% guidance range, reckons Citi. "Despite an apparent overrun in January/February, IAG's 2H weather allowance still looks robust," analyst Nigel Pittaway says. IAG's guidance assumes all of its A$1.28 billion natural perils costs will be utilized. Citi, however, thinks it will benefit from A$65 million of favorable weather variance across FY 2025. Citi, which has a buy call on IAG, expects a reported insurance margin of 16.1%. (david.winning@wsj.com; @dwinningWSJ)

1711 GMT - American drinkers are indulging more at bars and less at home, Joe Wadford of the Bank of America Institute finds. In January, spending at liquor stores fell by 5% from a year ago, while spending at bars was up by 1%. Wadford speculates that the "dry January" trend could be leading consumers to cut. Abstaining in January is big on social media, and Gen Z led the pullback, spending 15% less on alcohol last month versus a year earlier. He also suggests that some people stocked up on liquor during the pandemic, and are still working on liquor bottles they bought a couple of years ago. Meanwhile, Baby Boomers are hitting the town. They spent 4% more at bars than a year ago last month, the biggest increase among any generation. (matt.grossman@wsj.com; @mattgrossman)

By Matt Grossman U.S. households took on more debt over the last three months of 2024, and consumer-credit delinquency rates increased, according to new data published by the New York Fed.

U.S. household debt rose by 0.5% to $18.04 trillion in the quarter, the reserve bank said. Borrowing rose across mortgages, car loans, credit cards and student debt.

Compared with a year earlier, a greater share of consumer loans were also moving into serious delinquency, although the figures were for the most part only up modestly.

The annualized rate of flow into 90-day-or-greater delinquency rose to 1.7% for all household borrowing, up from 1.4% in the fourth quarter of 2023. For credit cards, the flow into serious delinquency climbed to 7.2%, from 6.4% a year earlier, and the flow into auto-loan delinquency increased to 3%, from 2.7% a year earlier. But the flow into student-loan delinquency declined slightly.

Elevated delinquencies on auto loans continue a concerning trend, Fed staff members said.

"High auto loan delinquency rates are broad-based across credit scores and income levels," New York Fed economic research adviser Wilbert van der Klaauw said.

Auto-delinquency rates are higher than pre-pandemic levels for consumers in almost every credit-score category, New York Fed researchers said. Write to Matt Grossman at matt.grossman@wsj.com

1442 GMT - A decision by Canada's bank regulator to defer a planned increase to the Basel III standardized capital floor suggests the move has been indefinitely shelved, Scotiabank's Derek Holt suggests. The deferral, following last summer's one-year delay, follows a global pattern, the economist adds. It means Canadian banks won't be at a relative disadvantage to banks in other countries, and most notably in the U.S., in having to set aside more capital. Holt says the competitive equity angle clearly dominated the regulator's decision since its release notes there remains uncertainty about when other jurisdictions will fully implement Basel III. "Under Trump? Likely never." (robb.stewart@wsj.com; @RobbMStewart)

1410 GMT - There is a five-month supply of homes for sale in the U.S., up from 4.4 months last year, the highest since early 2019, according to Redfin. Inventory is growing because more sellers are listing homes--new listings increased by 7.4% year over year--while buyer interest wanes, with pending sales down 6%. High housing costs, with median monthly payments nearly at record highs, and a 4.3% rise in home prices, are major deterrents. Mortgage rates are currently at 6.89%, down slightly, but still high compared to pre-and early-pandemic rates. Redfin says there may be an uptick in house hunters soon if mortgage rates start dropping again. (chris.wack@wsj.com)

1359 GMT - U.S. housing supply is increasing due to multiple factors, according to Redfin. The fading "mortgage rate lock-in effect" is a key reason. Homeowners with low rates from the pandemic are less reluctant to move despite higher rates now. Homes are staying on the market longer, with January sales taking 56 days on average, the longest since 2020. Demand is cooling as existing home sales dropped 1.7% in January, influenced by a 4.1% rise in median home prices to $418,581, which is 45% higher than pre-pandemic levels. Economic uncertainties like tariffs, federal workforce reductions, and return-to-office policies are also dampening buyer and seller enthusiasm. (chris.wack@wsj.com)

1350 GMT - Homebuyers have the most options since 2020, but few are biting because rising housing costs have made monthly payments tough to swallow, Redfin says. Pending home sales in January fell to the lowest level on record aside from the start of the pandemic. They dropped 4.2% month-over- month--the largest decline on a seasonally adjusted basis since August 2023--and 6.3% year-over- year. Meanwhile, active listings of homes for sale rose to the highest level since early in the pandemic. They climbed 0.3% month-over-month on a seasonally adjusted basis in January and 12.9% year-over-year. New listings hit the highest level since July 2022, increasing 1.9% month-over- month and 4.7% year-over-year. (chris.wack@wsj.com)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250214004156:0/)
