---
title: "Datadog Shares Drop Premarket After Earnings Guidance Misses Expectations"
date: "2025-02-13 20:55:00"
summary: "By Robb M. StewartDatadog's shares were under pressure in premarket trading after the enterprise-software maker's forecast for the new quarter fell short of market expectations, even as earnings for the latest quarter topped guidance.New York-based Datadog's fourth-quarter net income fell to $45.6 million, or 13 cents a share, from $54..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Robb M. Stewart

Datadog's shares were under pressure in premarket trading after the enterprise-software maker's forecast for the new quarter fell short of market expectations, even as earnings for the latest quarter topped guidance.

New York-based Datadog's fourth-quarter net income fell to $45.6 million, or 13 cents a share, from $54 million, or 15 cents a share, a year earlier.

On an adjusted basis, per-share earnings came in at 49 cents, passing the top end of the company's earlier guidance for earnings of as much as 44 cents.

Revenue for the quarter increased 25% on the year before to $737.7 million, beating Datadog's target of $709 million to $713 million.

For the first quarter of the new year, Datadog expects adjusted income of between 41 cents and 43 cents a share on revenue of between $737 million and $741 million. That represents a shortfall from the adjusted earnings forecast of 46 cents a share projected by analysts polled by FactSet, though is in keeping with the $740.3 million in sales they penciled in.

Datadog forecast annual adjusted earnings of $1.65 to $1.70 a share and revenue of between $3.175 billion and $3.195 billion.

Datadog's shares were under pressure ahead of the market open, slumping 8.6% to $135.31 after ending the previous session at $148.09. Shares are up 3.6% so far in 2025.

Write to Robb M. Stewart at robb.stewart@wsj.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250213008510:0/)
