---
title: "Montgomery County, Md., to Offer $42.6 Million in Bonds to Help Buy Affordable Housing"
date: "2025-02-13 04:37:00"
summary: "By Stephen NakrosisThe Housing Opportunities Commission of Montgomery County, Md., is offering $42.6 million in non-AMT bonds to help support the acquisition of affordable housing.The 2025 Series A bonds will be payable from certain of the commission's funds, accounts, revenues and reserve funds, offering documents on MuniOS said. Bonds are..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Stephen Nakrosis

The Housing Opportunities Commission of Montgomery County, Md., is offering $42.6 million in non-AMT bonds to help support the acquisition of affordable housing.

The 2025 Series A bonds will be payable from certain of the commission's funds, accounts, revenues and reserve funds, offering documents on MuniOS said. Bonds are also secured by a Fannie Mae Standby Credit Enhancement, the documents said.

Proceeds from the offering will be used to provide funds for the 2025 Series A Development, which consists of 256 units, 75% of which are being slated for affordable housing. The development will be owned by a Maryland limited liability company controlled by the commission.

The bonds will begin maturing on July 1, 2029, and will continue to mature each Jan. 1 and July 1 through July 1, 2034.

The bonds, which received a Aaa rating from Moody's, will be offered in increments of $5,000. Interest and yield on the bonds haven't been set.

Jefferies is listed as lead manager for the offering.

The Housing Opportunities Commission of Montgomery County said it has served over 20,000 county residents, and currently owns over 9,400 rental units. In addition to providing support for affordable housing, the commission provides partnership and supportive services.

Write to Stephen Nakrosis at stephen.nakrosis@wsj.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250212011801:0-montgomery-county-md-to-offer-42-6-million-in-bonds-to-help-buy-affordable-housing/)
