---
title: "Eurozone Industry Ends Bright Streak With Drop in Output"
date: "2025-02-13 18:00:00"
summary: "By Joshua KirbyFactories in the eurozone produced less at the end of last year, quashing signs of recovery seen earlier in the quarter.Industrial production in the 20 nations that share the euro fell back 1.1% compared with a month earlier, figures from E.U. statistics agency Eurostat showed Thursday. That was..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Joshua Kirby

Factories in the eurozone produced less at the end of last year, quashing signs of recovery seen earlier in the quarter.

Industrial production in the 20 nations that share the euro fell back 1.1% compared with a month earlier, figures from E.U. statistics agency Eurostat showed Thursday. That was worse than the 0.5% drop forecast by economists in a poll compiled by The Wall Street Journal, and reverses the gains made the previous two months.

The disappointing end to the year suggests the eurozone can't bank on an energetic rebound in manufacturing to support growth at the start of 2025. Moreover, the sector is braced for a hit from a downturn in global trade as Donald Trump prepares to slap heavy tariffs on goods from around the world, including Europe, a policy against which European leaders have vowed to retaliate in kind.

December's drop in industrial production was driven by a decline in the output of capital goods, an important export sector, while intermediate and durable consumer goods also fell back. By contrast, energy production stepped up a little over the month, while production of non-durable consumer goods increased markedly.

The eurozone's heavyweight industrial economy, Germany, contributed to December's ailing output, as did France and Italy, while Spain bucked the trend with higher production.

Write to Joshua Kirby at joshua.kirby@wsj.com; @joshualeokirby

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250213004845:0/)
