---
title: "Global Forex and Fixed Income Roundup: Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-13 22:50:00"
summary: "The latest Market Talks covering FX and Fixed Income. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.0950 ET - Homebuyers have the most options since 2020, but few are biting because rising housing costs have made monthly payments tough to swallow, Redfin says. Pending home sales in January fell..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The latest Market Talks covering FX and Fixed Income. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.

0950 ET - Homebuyers have the most options since 2020, but few are biting because rising housing costs have made monthly payments tough to swallow, Redfin says. Pending home sales in January fell to the lowest level on record aside from the start of the pandemic. They dropped 4.2% month-over- month--the largest decline on a seasonally adjusted basis since August 2023--and 6.3% year-over- year. Meanwhile, active listings of homes for sale rose to the highest level since early in the pandemic. They climbed 0.3% month-over-month on a seasonally adjusted basis in January and 12.9% year-over-year. New listings hit the highest level since July 2022, increasing 1.9% month-over- month and 4.7% year-over-year. (chris.wack@wsj.com)

0914 ET - The producer-price index rose by more than expected in January. But the components that matter for the Fed's preferred inflation metric, the personal consumption expenditures price index, were relatively tame, writes Paul Ashworth of Capital Economics. That will likely be good enough to help 12-month core PCE inflation decline to 2.6% in January, from 2.8% in December, Ashworth writes. Ashworth thinks that core PCE probably rose by 0.3% month over month in January. He estimates headline PCE rose by 0.3% month over month as well. With CPI and PPI data in hand for January, analysts can forecast last month's PCE figure with high accuracy. (matt.grossman@wsj.com; @mattgrossman)

0908 ET - The Fed has "zero reason to cut interest rates right now," writes Paul Stanley, of Granite Bay Wealth Management, in comments about January PPI inflation. The 0.4% print was higher than expected by economists surveyed by The Wall Street Journal, while decelerating from a 0.5% pace in December--a figure that was revised from 0.2%. The increase follows a hotter-than-expected CPI reading yesterday. "The resurgence of inflation comes at a unique time, as the economy braces for tariffs, which if sustained, could add yet another inflationary pressure," Stanley says. He adds that fixed-income investors may see an opportunity to lock in higher yields at this time. (paulo.trevisani@wsj.com; @ptrevisani)

0905 ET - Canadian Tire says it is hedged for the majority of its U.S.-sourced goods, but 2026 is the wild card. The retailer's executives say on a call that they purchase about 15% of their goods from the U.S., but for 2025, they have already hedged forward over 80% of their US goods, but warned that there is "margin risk in 2026." The tariff threat introduces a "new zone of uncertainty." The biggest danger for Canadian Tire, however, is the indirect impacts on employment levels and spending habits. The company has been reassessing its product assortment in preparation. (adriano.marchese@wsj.com)

0856 ET - Treasury yields weaken following an increase on January PPI inflation index and a decrease in weekly jobless claims. The wholesale price index for final demand was higher than expected, at 0.4%, while December's figure was revised to 0.5% from 0.2%. January's core reading was 0.3%, as expected. Initial jobless claims were 213,000, down from a revised 220,000 in the previous week. Economists forecast 215,000, in a Wall Street Journal survey. Hotter prices and falling layoffs reinforce the case for a prolonged Fed pause. Still, yields give back some of yesterday's gains triggered by hot CPI inflation. The 10-year is at 4.571% and the two-year at 4.319%. (paulo.trevisani@wsj.com; @ptrevisani)

0852 ET - Canadian small- and mid-sized businesses are scrambling to deal with US trade policy uncertainty, according to a survey of 2,200 owners and managers conducted by the Canadian Federation of Independent Business. The Canadian small-business lobby says at least a fifth of members report having orders canceled or paused due to President Trump's threat to slap a 25% tariff on nonenergy goods and a 10% levy on energy products. Moreover, a quarter of respondents say they are delaying expansions plans, 20% indicate they will likely cut payrolls, and nearly half are looking for new suppliers. Minutes from the Bank of Canada's rate-policy deliberations last month indicate that officials viewed "prolonged trade uncertainty" as the biggest downside risk to the country's economic outlook. (Paul.Vieira@wsj.com, @paulvieira)

0850 ET - HSBC Research maintains its mildly positive conviction on core eurozone government bonds this month in anticipation of more rate cuts by the European Central Bank, says Chris Attfield in a note. "The signals coming from the ECB are sounding more dovish in our view, with more emphasis on the downside risk to growth and less on sticky domestic inflation," the European rates strategist says. The lower level of yields means that Bunds now offer less value than at HSBC Research's last publication, he says. Eurozone government bond yields fall, with the 10-year Bund yield down 5 basis points to last trade at 2.432%, according to Tradeweb. (emese.bartha@wsj.com)

0838 ET - Canadian Tire says that it will wait a few months before committing to a certain buying strategy for what it will stock later in the year. On an analyst call, company executives say that they will wait 100 days, giving time to see how consumer and economic dynamics play out. The company doesn't want to commit to a particular buying strategy yet for the fall-winter inventory, especially with looming tariffs which could affect consumer sentiment. Canadian Tire's year-end inventory was down 5% compared to year-end 2023.(adriano.marchese@wsj.com)

0835 ET - UBS Asset Management is overweight global government bonds in anticipation of further slowdown in inflation and more rate cuts by central banks, says multi-asset strategy head Evan Brown in a monthly asset class view. "We continue to think inflation will decelerate this year, supporting the global easing cycle (ex. Japan)," he says. Valuations in most developed market rates markets remain attractive with rates still broadly restrictive, according to UBS AM's asset class view. However, the asset manager is shifting duration exposure from the U.S. to non-U.S. bond markets as it can help address inflation risks, he says. (emese.bartha@wsj.com)

0827 ET - Canadian Tire CEO Greg Hicks says the looming tariff threat overshadows green shoots of improving consumer sentiment. On an analyst call, the executive says that the retailer has been in discussions with U.S.-based suppliers and reviewing its products "to insulate customers from higher costs." This comes at a time when the company has seen a pickup in consumer spending and sentiment at the end of the year, benefiting from lower interest rates. Hicks says he is cautiously optimistic for the business, which could benefit from certain tariff dynamics, such as more consumer focus on home renovations. (adriano.marchese@wsj.com)

0818 ET - Demand for stablecoins, or cryptocurrencies that are pegged to another asset like the dollar, could rise further on more crypto-friendly regulation, UBS Global Wealth Management analysts say in a note. The Trump administration's pro-crypto stance could result in greater regulatory clarity and oversight, they say. This could result in increased adoption and greater involvement from major U.S. banks. The EU's MicA regulation could also boost stablecoin adoption. Meanwhile, established fintech platforms like PayPal are integrating stablecoins into their platforms and this could see other financial service providers follow suit. "Several banks are looking at stablecoins as a way to streamline payments and reduce frictions and costs in cross-border transactions, but also to defend their existing business against possible market entrants." (renae.dyer@wsj.com)

0815 ET - The cost of insuring Chinese debt against default using credit default swaps falls as market sentiment improves driven by China's AI advancements. News about China's DeepSeek AI advances have boosted risk appetite and driven gains for Chinese stocks, Patrick Munnelly, partner at Tickmill Group says in a note. China's five-year credit default swaps decline 2 basis points to 47bps, a two-year low, S&P Global Market Intelligence data show. (miriam.mukuru@wsj.com)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250213010660:0/)
