---
title: "House Republicans Release Blueprint for Tax Relief, Spending Cuts After Tense Talks — WSJ"
date: "2025-02-12 23:40:00"
summary: "By Richard RubinWASHINGTON — House Republicans released on Wednesday the first blueprint for their \"one big, beautiful bill\" that would cut taxes, reduce spending and provide money for border enforcement.Lawmakers created that outline after weeks of tense internal meetings among their competing factions, and it isn't clear yet whether they..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Richard Rubin

WASHINGTON — House Republicans released on Wednesday the first blueprint for their "one big, beautiful bill" that would cut taxes, reduce spending and provide money for border enforcement.

Lawmakers created that outline after weeks of tense internal meetings among their competing factions, and it isn't clear yet whether they satisfied everyone.

That plan — headed for a Budget Committee vote Thursday — calls for a minimum of $1.5 trillion in spending cuts over a decade and a maximum of $4.5 trillion in tax cuts from the Ways and Means Committee. It would also increase the federal debt limit by $4 trillion, likely enough to get through about two years. The plan also calls for $300 billion in new spending, likely for immigration enforcement and defense.

The release of the plan came as Senate Republicans also claimed progress Wednesday in implementing President Trump's top priorities. But the House and Senate are still moving in different and incompatible directions, and they have to resolve that dispute before they can get anything significant to Trump's desk.

The House plan says it is ultimately aiming for $2 trillion in spending-cut reductions and that the goal would be to reduce the Ways and Means deficit-increasing allowance if spending cuts don't hit that target.

Those targets are going to test House Republicans' ability to unify their fractious, narrow majority, now at 218-215. Writing subsequent legislation that stays within those thresholds could prove challenging.

"We've got to be working with our members, whipping the bill, doing other things, to get it passed on the floor," said House Majority Leader Steve Scalise (R., La.) "That's never been an easy process in the past. This will be no different this year."

The spending-cut minimum is below the $2 trillion or $2.5 trillion floor that the most conservative House Republicans wanted to hit. The tax cut maximum is below the $5.5 trillion that would allow for extending all of the tax cuts that expire at the end of this year and make room for Trump priorities such as tax-free tips, overtime pay and Social Security benefits.

Rep. Jason Smith (R., Mo.), the Ways and Means chairman, has said that $4.5 trillion wouldn't be enough to accomplish all of Trump's tax priorities.

Republicans are planning to assume that real economic growth — caused by their plans and Trump's actions on deregulation and fossil-fuel production — can be higher than the 1.8% forecast by the Congressional Budget Office. That would throw off enough tax revenue so Republicans can claim that their plan wouldn't add to budget deficits.

But such growth is difficult to achieve and sustain, economists say, especially because Trump's immigration and tariff policies tend to slow growth.

Meanwhile, in the Senate, the Budget Committee began advancing the first phase of its two-track plan.

Instead of one big bill, Republican senators wrote a budget aimed at allowing a roughly $350 billion package focused on border-security and national defense. They want to save the messier tax and spending debate until later in the year.

Tom Homan, Trump's border czar, and budget chief Russ Vought met with Senate Republicans on Tuesday and emphasized how they're running out of money for the immigration enforcement Trump wants, said Sen. Lindsey Graham (R., S.C.), the Budget Committee chairman. The idea is to provide enough money now to cover Trump's immigration priorities for the next four years, offset with spending cuts and revenue from energy leases over four years.

"Why would they come over and tell us, begging for money, if they didn't want to move?" Graham said. "I think they came over to create a sense of urgency, that we need the money and we need it now for border and the military."

Graham and Republican senators say they understand the House's approach — the theory being that the House can only corral its members once in a single pass-fail exercise — but they just don't think it's doable now. The Senate budget doesn't make room for tax-cut extensions nor does it require spending cuts as large as the House plan.

"This isn't easy," said Sen. Ron Johnson (R., Wis.). "I think we're all finding one big beautiful bill is also one really big, complex and hard to even draft — much less pass — bill as well."

Republicans are using the process known as budget reconciliation to advance Trump's priorities. That approach lets them push a bill through the Senate with a simple majority, avoiding the 60-vote filibuster threshold and the need for Democratic votes.

But reconciliation is clunky. It can only be used for fiscal matters such as taxes and spending, not major policy changes on issues such as immigration.

And Republicans can use it only if the House and Senate first agree on a budget.

Write to Richard Rubin at richard.rubin@wsj.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250212009606:0/)
