---
title: "Global Forex and Fixed Income Roundup: Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-14 12:09:00"
summary: "The latest Market Talks covering FX and Fixed Income. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.0409 GMT - Singapore's economic outlook beyond the near-term could face considerable downside risks from shifts in global trade policies due to U.S. President Trump's escalating tariff threats, DBS says. The city-state may..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The latest Market Talks covering FX and Fixed Income. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.

0409 GMT - Singapore's economic outlook beyond the near-term could face considerable downside risks from shifts in global trade policies due to U.S. President Trump's escalating tariff threats, DBS says. The city-state may avoid direct U.S. tariffs due to its close and cooperative trade relationship with America, economist Chua Han Teng writes. However, Singapore's economy likely remains indirectly vulnerable to potential U.S. tariffs on its major trading partners, Chua says. Any deceleration in global economic growth and trade from the current resilient conditions could also weigh on Singapore's economy, he adds.(amanda.lee@wsj.com)

0350 GMT - The Singapore dollar is steady against its U.S. counterpart in the Asian session, supported by some signs of relief. Key parts of the U.S. PPI released overnight, which are tied to the Fed's preferred inflation gauge, were softer, Maybank analysts say in a FX Research & Strategy report. They note that the reading eased some worries over inflationary pressures as well. In addition, U.S. President Trump only plans to consider reciprocal tariffs after Apr. 1, the analysts add. USD/SGD is little changed at 1.3438. (ronnie.harui@wsj.com)

0259 GMT - The Philippines central bank's surprise decision to keep rates on hold is likely temporary, Barclays economist Shreya Sodhani says in a note. Further cuts are coming with the BSP wanting to reduce restrictiveness of its policy stance, she writes. The BSP has the flexibility to hold rates until it is more sure about foreign policies, having cut rates thrice last year, she says. The central bank's timing of the first cut this year will likely depend on U.S. President Trump's trade policy announcements, she adds. Barclays' base case is for two cuts this year, with the first in June and the second in 4Q.(amanda.lee@wsj.com)

0231 GMT - With just a few days left before the Reserve Bank of Australia's first policy meeting for the year, money market traders have gone all in on the central bank delivering its first interest rate cut for the cycle. Money markets pricing now reflects a 100% probability of a cut, up from 85% midweek. The confident pricing comes despite media reports that the RBA board may be in two minds at the meeting. Albeit, the central bank can hang a cut on data showing a recent cooling in inflation, and its growing confidence that the three-year battle to tame price pressures will soon be over. (james.glynn@wsj.com; @JamesGlynnWSJ)

0219 GMT - Bank Indonesia is likely to lower rates further in 2025, HSBC Global Research economists say, noting the central bank's unexpected rate cut in January. The main driver of the cut seemed to be growth worries, with BI reducing its 2025 growth forecast, the economists say. Together with soft growth momentum, Indonesia's new fiscal expenditure plans may not completely solve the country's growth problem, they say. Also, domestic inflation will likely remain in the central bank's target range, opening up room for monetary easing. HSBC now expects a 25bps rate cut at the March meeting, a 25bps rate cut in 2Q and two 25bps rate cuts in 3Q. (ronnie.harui@wsj.com)

0200 GMT - A former senior manager at the Reserve Bank of Australia has warned that the central bank must deliver a "hawkish cut" if it lowers rates next week, saying economic conditions don't justify the three cuts money markets currently anticipate this year. Jonathan Kearns, chief economist at investment manager Challenger, also argues that the probability of a cut at the RBA's policy meeting next week is much less than the near-90% priced by markets, adding that the central bank will debate credible cases to cut, and not to cut. (james.glynn@wsj.com; @JamesGlynnWSJ)

0205 GMT - Trump's apparent pivot away from a flat universal tariff to ones on a country-by-country basis will likely lead to an even bigger rise in average tariffs and in U.S. consumer prices, says Capital Economics' Paul Ashworth. "We have no idea of the formula to be used to calculate the reciprocal tariffs," the chief North America economist says, adding that if valued-added tax and the most-favored nation tariffs rates are included, India and Brazil will be hit the hardest, followed by the EU, UK, Mexico and Canada. As for "winners," he names Singapore, Taiwan and South Korea. The average effective tariffs on U.S. imports would jump to around 20% from less than 3%, adding roughly 2% to prices, temporarily pushing inflation to 4% later this year, he says. (fabiana.negrinochoa@wsj.com)

0140 GMT - The PBOC's 4Q monetary policy report released Thursday implies the Chinese central bank is presently prioritizing financial stability over immediate monetary policy easing, Goldman Sachs Research team says in a research report. The PBOC pledged to intensify monetary policy easing when appropriate and had strong language on FX management, the team notes. Given ongoing deflationary pressures in China, however, monetary policy easing is needed, says GS, which forecasts 50 bps of reserve requirement ratio cuts each in 1Q and 3Q and 20bp policy rate cuts in both 2Q and 4Q. (ronnie.harui@wsj.com)

0037 GMT - For Spark NZ, this year likely won't be as bad as 2024, which included two downgrades to its guidance. Still, Forsyth Barr says the New Zealand telco's improvement will be driven by cost savings rather than revenue growth. Analyst Aaron Ibbotson expects Spark NZ's cash flow generation will be positive again, partly due to big cut in capex. But while its free cash flow is improving, it won't cover its dividend in FY 2025, Forsyth Barr says. "Further non-core assets sales may be announced in order to cover its dividend shortfall or fund its data center developments," Forsyth Barr says. Spark NZ is due to report its 1H results on Feb. 21. (david.winning@wsj.com; @dwinningWSJ)

0032 GMT - Asian currencies consolidate against the dollar in the morning session as traders assess U.S. President Trump's tariff policy. Trump on Thursday ordered federal agencies to explore how to adjust U.S. tariffs to match those of other countries. However, Trump's order stops short of actually imposing tariffs immediately. "Tariff ambiguity still reigns," NAB's Ray Attrill says in a commentary. "But, markets are currently drawing some comfort from the news the next set won't come into effect before April," the head of FX Research says. USD/JPY is 0.1% lower at 152.63; USD/KRW edges 0.1% higher to 1,441.53; AUD/USD is little changed at 0.6318. (ronnie.harui@wsj.com)

0020 GMT - Most JGBs edge higher in the morning Tokyo session, tracking overnight price gains in U.S. Treasurys. Both JGBs and Treasurys tend to move in tandem. Market focus today may be on the Japanese Finance Ministry's scheduled auction of 2.3 trillion yen of five-year sovereign notes. If today's auction goes smoothly, the rise in yields since end-January may take a breather, SMBC Nikko Securities' senior Japan rates strategist Ataru Okumura says. The 5-year JGB yield is down 1bp at 0.990%; the 10-year yield is down 1bp at 1.340%; the 30-year yield is up 0.5bps at 2.325%. (ronnie.harui@wsj.com)

2346 GMT - Japanese stocks may trade rangebound as uncertainty over borrowing costs and U.S. trade policies continues. Nikkei futures are up 0.1% at 39450 on the SGX. USD/JPY is at 153.07, down from 154.02 as of Thursday's Tokyo stock market close. Investors are focusing on domestic earnings and U.S. trade policies. Eneos Holdings and Asahi Group Holdings are scheduled to announce their quarterly results later in the day. The Nikkei Stock Average rose 1.3% to 39461.47 on Thursday. (kosaku.narioka@wsj.com)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250213018638:0/)
