---
title: "EMEA Morning Briefing: Trump Tariffs Remain in Focus"
date: "2025-02-10 13:16:00"
summary: "MARKET WRAPSWatch For:No major economic or corporate trading updates expectedOpening Call:European stock futures were higher at the start of the week. Asian stock benchmarks fell as traders digested Trump's plans for tariffs on steel and aluminum. The dollar strengthened; Treasury yields were little changed; while oil and gold futures rose.Equities:Stock..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

MARKET WRAPS

Watch For:

No major economic or corporate trading updates expected

Opening Call:

European stock futures were higher at the start of the week. Asian stock benchmarks fell as traders digested Trump's plans for tariffs on steel and aluminum. The dollar strengthened; Treasury yields were little changed; while oil and gold futures rose.

Equities:

Stock futures gained early Monday as it promises to be yet another lively start to the week, with market-moving headlines set to roll induring a week where President Trump will be everywhere and all-consuming, said Chris Weston, head of research at Pepperstone.

Trump will be a constant source of headline risk that could throw markets around, and impact sentiment at a time when many were trying to refocus attention on other market themes, Weston said.

Trump said Sunday that he plans to impose 25% tariffs Monday on imports of steel and aluminum, with an announcement about reciprocal tariffs to come Tuesday or Wednesday.

Forex:

The U.S. dollar strengthened after Trump's announcement on steel and aluminum tariffs. The USD Index has maintained its recovery, CIMB said. Upcoming tariffs are likely to focus on the European Union given its relatively high trade surplus with the U.S., as well as the region's higher tariffs against U.S. exports, CIMB added.

Bonds:

Longer-term bond yields have eased back to around 4.5% as Trump's second term started off much like his first - with a barrage of headlines and cliffhangers to keep everyone guessing.

Recent calm in the bond market suggests the biggest shocks on the path to more "normalized" interest rates may have passed.

Should longer-term rates "grind up slowly" from here, the market can probably digest that, said Matt Peron, global head of the solutions group at Janus Henderson Investors, while warning that the path still could have potholes.

Energy:

Oil futures edged higher in Asia. Last week, the U.S. imposed sanctions on an international network facilitating the shipment of Iranian crude to China to increase pressure on the Middle Eastern country. The sanctions could offer short-term support by limiting Iranian oil availability, said Hamza Zraimek, CEO of IGOUDAR. However, broader worries over global supply and demand dynamics continue, Zraimek added.

Metals:

Worries over inflation related to a more restrictive global trade environment, geopolitical risks and sanctions on Iran's oil have prompted investors to build robust gold long positions, TD Securities said.

-

The impact from potential U.S. tariffs on steel and aluminum on emerging economies in Asia is likely to be relatively limited, Barclays said.

Barclays noted that Trump imposed steel and aluminum tariffs in 2018, as did Biden in July 2024. "To the extent that these earlier tariffs had not been reversed, the incremental increase could end up being relatively limited, further mitigating the economic pain for emerging Asia."

-

Iron ore prices are lower early Monday. Tariffs on U.S. imports of steel and aluminum could hurt the demand for the black metal.

However, iron ore prices may still find some near-term support, thanks to seasonal strong demand and supply, Nanhua Futures said. Investors are likely to focus on changes on demand, as mainland China gradually returns to work after the Lunar New Year holiday, it added.

TODAY'S TOP HEADLINES

Trump's Next Round of Tariffs-25% on Steel and Aluminum-Won't Be So Easily Averted

President Trump said that he plans to impose 25% tariffs Monday on imports of steel and aluminum, part of the structural change to the country's trade system that the president promised on the campaign trail.

He also said he plans to make an announcement about reciprocal tariffs on Tuesday or Wednesday. "Very simple, they charge us, we charge them," Trump said Sunday. Those will go into effect "almost immediately," Trump said.

For CEOs and Bankers, the Trump Euphoria Is Fading Fast

It took less than a month for the second Trump administration to cool the enthusiasm of chief executives and dealmakers.

Consumer sentiment is down and inflation expectations are rising, driven in part by worries about the impact of a threatened trade war. The deals market just ended its quietest January in a decade. A Justice Department that was expected to wave through acquisitions instead sued to block a big technology merger.

Elliott Takes Stake in Struggling Oil Giant BP

Activist hedge fund Elliott Management has built a stake in British oil major BP and will push for transformational changes to improve the company's performance, according to people familiar with the investment.

The U.S. hedge fund, which manages around $70 billion in assets, is one of Wall Street's most influential investors, known for pressuring companies to fire management, break apart and spin off businesses, all with the goal of increasing shareholder returns.

Europe's Unloved Stocks Are Suddenly on Top of the World

Europe's economy is stuck in the doldrums and President Trump's threat to hit the trade-dependent region next with tariffs risks making things worse. Yet European stocks are on a hot streak.

The German DAX has climbed more than 9% this year in dollar terms, and France's CAC 40 is up about 8%. That is well above the 2.45% gain in the S&P 500. European indexes haven't outpaced U.S. counterparts by such a wide mark at the start of a year since 2015, according to Dow Jones Market Data.

Trump's Role in TikTok Talks: Dealmaker in Chief

President Trump has been a real-estate tycoon and reality-TV star. Now he's playing a new role as he oversees TikTok's fate: investment banker.

In public and behind the scenes, Trump has discussed possible deals to Americanize control of the Chinese-controlled app he once tried to ban, promoting it as a prize asset for tech titans to bid over, a potential target for a planned American sovereign-wealth fund, and a valuable chip in trade negotiations with Beijing.

DeepSeek Offers Bioweapon, Self-Harm Information

Instructions to modify bird flu. A manifesto in defense of Hitler. A social-media campaign to promote cutting and self-harm among teens.

Those are some of the potentially hazardous things it's easier to get the Chinese artificial intelligence app DeepSeek to talk about compared with its leading American competitors, according to testing by AI safety experts and The Wall Street Journal.

Write to singaporeeditors@dowjones.com

Expected Major Events for Monday

00:01/UK: Jan KPMG and REC UK Report on Jobs

05:30/NED: Dec Manufacturing output

06:00/FIN: Dec Industrial Production

07:00/NOR: 4Q Labour force survey

07:00/DEN: Dec External trade (provisional figures)

07:00/DEN: Dec Balance of payments (provisional figures)

07:00/SWE: Dec New orders & deliveries in industry

07:00/SWE: Dec Industrial Production Index

07:00/ROM: Dec International trade

07:00/NOR: Jan PPI

07:00/NOR: Jan CPI

07:00/TUR: Dec Industrial Production Index

07:00/DEN: Jan CPI

07:00/TUR: Dec Employment / Unemployment

08:00/CZE: Jan Unemployment data

08:00/AUT: Dec Production Index

08:00/CZE: Dec Import & export price indices

09:00/BUL: Dec Industrial Production

09:00/BUL: Nov Trade with EU Member States - preliminary data

09:00/BUL: Dec Trade with third countries - preliminary data

10:00/CYP: Dec Foreign Trade (provisional)

10:00/LUX: Dec Industrial Production

10:00/GRE: Dec Industrial Production Index

11:00/IRL: Jan Irish Live Register latest monthly figures

11:00/POR: Dec International trade statistics

All times in GMT. Powered by Onclusive and Dow Jones.

Write to us at newsletters@dowjones.com

We offer an enhanced version of this briefing that is optimized for viewing on mobile devices and sent directly to your email inbox. If you would like to sign up, please go to https://newsplus.wsj.com/subscriptions.

This article is a text version of a Wall Street Journal newsletter published earlier today.

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250210000103:0-emea-morning-briefing-trump-tariffs-remain-in-focus/)
