---
title: "Basic Materials Roundup: Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-11 17:20:00"
summary: "The latest Market Talks covering Basic Materials. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires at 4:20 ET, 12:20 ET and 16:50 ET.0808 GMT - DSM-Firmenich will likely communicate on capital returns in advance of further divestment, Jefferies analysts write in a note. The sale of its stake in the Feed Enzymes..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The latest Market Talks covering Basic Materials. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires at 4:20 ET, 12:20 ET and 16:50 ET.

0808 GMT - DSM-Firmenich will likely communicate on capital returns in advance of further divestment, Jefferies analysts write in a note. The sale of its stake in the Feed Enzymes Alliance to its partner Novonesis brings focus to its balance sheet, the analysts say. "The combination of this divestment and the previously announced Robertet sale represents around 1.8 billion euros of net proceeds from divestment," they add. This suggests that the Dutch nutrition, health and bioscience company could communicate on capital returns even before the finalized remaining Animal Nutrition and Health sale. Shares rise 3.8% to 99.48 euros. (najat.kantouar@wsj.com)

0645 GMT - U.S. tariffs on steel and aluminum imports will likely have a limited direct impact on Asian countries, analysts at DBS Group research write in a note. While domestic U.S. players will benefit most from the higher prices, the U.S. depends highly on Canada and Mexico, which will suffer the most, they write. The exposure for Chinese steelmakers is negligible, while aluminum products from China accounted for only 3% of U.S. imports of the metal between 2020 and 2023. Indirect impacts include an increased supply of these metals to regional markets avoiding U.S. tariffs and U.S. inflation pressure from higher material prices. (kimberley.kao@wsj.com)

0640 GMT - Outokumpu is closely monitoring developments after the U.S. imposed 25% tariffs on steel and aluminum imports, and says tariffs on imported goods are generally beneficial. The Finland-based stainless steel company says it is the second-largest stainless steel producer in the U.S., and it has a plant in Alabama. Tariffs on imported goods are helpful for the company's operations in the Americas amid significant stainless steel imports from Asia to North America, which Outokumpu says have often negatively impacted the company. It adds that imports have markedly risen in recent years and that it welcomes moves to establish a level playing field in North America. (pierre.bertrand@wsj.com)

0102 GMT - BlueScope Steel is outperforming Australia's benchmark ASX 200 index after Prime Minister Anthony Albanese said the U.S. is considering exempting the country from tariffs on steel and aluminum. Albanese made the remarks following a call with President Trump. Albanese said Australia has a significant trade surplus with the U.S. dating back to the Truman administration and highlighted that BlueScope, which owns the North Star mill in Ohio, is the U.S.'s fifth-largest steel maker. The U.S. isn't a big destination for steel manufactured in Australia, which is mainly sold at home. BlueScope is up 1.7% today, outpacing a 0.2% rise by the ASX 200. (david.winning@wsj.com; @dwinningWSJ)

2331 GMT - Macquarie takes a more bullish view of dividends from iron-ore miner Fortescue, starting from its 1H result this month. The bank raises its payout ratio to 70% of net profit, from 50%, meaning it now expects a dividend of A$0.52/share. "Fortescue will probably lever up to maintain high payout ratios as EPS declines and iron ore prices revert to long-term normalized levels," Macquarie says. That view prompts it to raise FY 2026-2028 payout expectations to 60%, which lifts its dividend forecasts by 20% over the period. "Under these assumptions (with falling EPS across FY 2025-2028), we expect Fortescue to yield 6.7%/4.5%/3.1%, respectively." The bank retains an underperform call on Fortescue. (david.winning@wsj.com; @dwinningWSJ)

2328 GMT - Mining company South32's interim dividend could disappoint investors, reckons Macquarie. While South32 is likely to maintain its payout ratio at 40% of underlying earnings, the issue is that 1H profits will be thinner than the market expects, Macquarie says. It tips South32 to declare an interim dividend of 2.3 U.S. cents per share, representing a 27% miss to consensus forecasts. "However, given the materiality of the expected FY 2025 yield (1% annualized), we expect the focus at the results to be on free cash flow," Macquarie says. South32 is due to report its 1H result on Thursday. (david.winning@wsj.com; @dwinningWSJ)

2049 GMT - A 25% U.S. tariff on Canadian aluminum "will be so destructive for industrial aluminum value chain in the U.S. that it cannot last," says Jean Simard, CEO of the Aluminium Association of Canada. Simard tells WSJ he's hoping the Trump administration will carve out Canadian-made aluminum from the president's decision to impose a 25% tariff on imported steel and aluminum. Simard says small- and mid-sized U.S. manufacturers will be stuck paying vastly more for the metal which is used to build cars, aerospace products, and consumer appliances. "At some point in time, some products will be priced out of the market and replaced by foreign imports," Simard predicts. Canada supplies about 60% of the aluminum the U.S. imports. (paul.vieira@wsj.com; @paulvieira)

1656 GMT - Canada is the biggest foreign supplier of steel and aluminum to the US market. However, the fallout from 25% US tariffs on those two commodities, as President Trump has promised, would be minimal for the Canadian economy, Capital Economics says. "The impact on GDP should be limited," the firm says, noting Canadian steel and aluminum exports to US account for just 1% of GDP. CapEcon says it doesn't believe Ottawa will do much in terms of retaliation, although noting that public-opinion polls show widespread support for taking a tough approach against the Trump administration. Given that US exports accounts for one-fifth of Canada GDP, "any serious [retaliation] measures would be Canada cutting off its nose to spite its face." (Paul.Vieira@wsj.com, @paulvieira)

1653 GMT - The U.S. manufacturing and auto industries are preparing for new 25% tariffs on aluminum and steel imports announced by President Trump. The move will likely have a particularly large effect on imports from Canada and Mexico, says ING Economics in a note. The firm says U.S. manufacturers import over half of the aluminum they need, with Canada the source of roughly 60%. Canada and Mexico account for about 90% of aluminum scrap imports, according to ING. Meanwhile, 23% of steel imports come from Canada, 16% from Brazil, 12% from Mexico and 10% from South Korea. (kirk.maltais@wsj.com)

1549 GMT - Corporate bonds issued by companies within U.S. tech, auto and basic materials sectors have a higher exposure to foreign revenue and are more vulnerable to tariffs implemented by President Trump, BNP Paribas credit strategists say in a note. Issuers within services sectors, however, such as healthcare and cruise companies, have lower foreign sales and are better placed to avoid the negative impacts of tariffs, the strategists say. (miriam.mukuru@wsj.com)

1329 GMT — Russel Metals may skirt the worst of the steel tariffs thanks to its larger U.S. exposure. TD Cowen's Michael Tupholme says the 25% tariffs on U.S. steel/aluminum imports from all countries will be a challenge for the metals space, but Russel Metals may get off easier than others, similar to the trends saw in the 2018 tariffs on the sector. "We see the news as positive for steel-related equities with U.S. market exposure, including Russel, which generates 40% of its revenue in the U.S.," the analyst notes. (adriano.marchese@wsj.com)

1328 GMT - The dollar weakens against most major currencies while dollar indexes rise, as markets react to a new set of tariffs announced by President Trump over the weekend. Both the ICE's DXY gauge and the broader WSJ Dollar Index rise around 0.1%, while the greenback weakens 0.2% against the euro and strengthens 0.3% versus the yen. The 25% levy on all steel and aluminum imports to the U.S. looks less likely to be avoided the way previous country-targeting tariffs were. Goldman Sachs' Stuart Jenkins writes that "we think they would have a more durable Dollar impact that the market is not yet fully pricing." (paulo.trevisani@wsj.com; @ptrevisani)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250211001963:0/)
