---
title: "Airbnb shares are rallying, and its CEO thinks it can be a one-stop travel shop 'similar to Amazon'"
date: "2025-02-14 09:20:00"
summary: "By Bill Peters'In 2024, we successfully outpaced the travel industry's growth, and in 2025, we aim to build on this momentum,' company saysAirbnb Inc. on Thursday forecast first-quarter sales that came up a bit shy of Wall Street's expectations, but the vacation-rental platform said it expects to continue to invest..."
categories:
  - "MarketWatch"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "MarketWatch"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Bill Peters

'In 2024, we successfully outpaced the travel industry's growth, and in 2025, we aim to build on this momentum,' company says

Airbnb Inc. on Thursday forecast first-quarter sales that came up a bit shy of Wall Street's expectations, but the vacation-rental platform said it expects to continue to invest in expansion and build on strides it made last year, as travel demand settles but stays solid.

The company said it expects first-quarter revenue of $2.23 billion to $2.27 billion. Wall Street analysts polled by FactSet expect sales of $2.29 billion. Airbnb (ABNB) said it expects "relatively stable" growth in nights booked over that time.

It forecast an adjusted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization margin of "at least 34.5%," even as the company invests in growth. Management said it planned to invest $200 million to $250 million this year in "launching and scaling new businesses to be introduced later this year."

"In 2024, we successfully outpaced the travel industry's growth, and in 2025, we aim to build on this momentum," executives said in a letter to shareholders.

Airbnb reported the results as travel demand evens out following the postpandemic boom years. Consumers, spooked to some degree by inflation, last year initially held off on some overnight stays, and showed some hesitation around the U.S. presidential election in November. But they eventually came around, executives said.

"Those folks who were somewhat on the sidelines in terms of making their future bookings in the summer came back to us in the fall and did indeed make those bookings," Chief Financial Officer Ellie Mertz said on Airbnb's earnings call Thursday.

"I think subsequent to that, we've certainly seen that past the initial uncertainty leading into the election, the consumer, and in particular the North American consumer, has been strong and, in particular, has been strong in terms of contemplating future travel," she continued.

Shares jumped 14.8% after hours on Thursday. As of Thursday's close, the stock was still down 10.6% over the past 12 months.

Airbnb's fourth-quarter results also beat expectations. It reported revenue of $2.48 billion, up 12% year over year as people stayed more nights at hosts' properties, and earned 73 cents a share. Gross booking value, or the dollar value of everything booked through Airbnb, was $17.6 billion.

Analysts polled by FactSet had expected Airbnb to earn 58 cents a share on revenue of $2.42 billion and gross bookings of $17.24 billion.

Meanwhile, the company has overhauled its tech infrastructure, and tried to make it easier for travelers to find places to stay and to offer more assistance to hosts. Airbnb has expanded internationally and is working to take more business from hotels with more flexible vacation options.

Chief Executive Brian Chesky, in discussing Airbnb's expansion plans, said there were "dozens and dozens" of adjacencies to travel. He said he wanted to make the platform more than a place to stay.

"We are not going to launch separate apps or separate brands," he said. "We're going to have one app, one brand, the Airbnb app. And we want the Airbnb app, kind of similar to Amazon, to be one place to go for all of your traveling and living needs. A place to stay is just really, frankly, a very small part of the overall equation."

-Bill Peters

This content was created by MarketWatch, which is operated by Dow Jones & Co. MarketWatch is published independently from Dow Jones Newswires and The Wall Street Journal.

[MarketWatch](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_SN20250213013998:0/)
