---
title: "Rubrik to Report Fourth Quarter and Fiscal Year 2025 Financial Results on March 13, 2025"
date: "2025-02-13 22:05:00"
summary: "Rubrik to Report Fourth Quarter and Fiscal Year 2025 Financial Results on March 13, 2025PALO ALTO, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--February 13, 2025--Rubrik, Inc. , a cybersecurity company, today announces that it will release financial results for its fourth quarter and fiscal year 2025 ended January 31, 2025, after the market closes on..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Rubrik to Report Fourth Quarter and Fiscal Year 2025 Financial Results on March 13, 2025

PALO ALTO, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--February 13, 2025--

Rubrik, Inc. , a cybersecurity company, today announces that it will release financial results for its fourth quarter and fiscal year 2025 ended January 31, 2025, after the market closes on Thursday, March 13, 2025.

Management will also host a live conference call that day at 2:00 pm PT / 5:00 pm ET to discuss the Company's financial results.

A live webcast of the conference call and related materials can be accessed from the Company's investor relations website at https://ir.rubrik.com. Following the call, a replay of the webcast will also be available on the investor relations website.

About Rubrik

Rubrik is on a mission to secure the world's data. With Zero Trust Data Security(TM), we help organizations achieve business resilience against cyberattacks, malicious insiders, and operational disruptions. Rubrik Security Cloud, powered by machine learning, secures data across enterprise, cloud, and SaaS applications. We help organizations uphold data integrity, deliver data availability that withstands adverse conditions, continuously monitor data risks and threats, and restore businesses with their data when infrastructure is attacked.

For more information please visit www.rubrik.com and follow @rubrikInc on X (formerly Twitter) and Rubrik on LinkedIn.

View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20250213415949/en/

CONTACT: Investor Relations Contact

Melissa Franchi

VP, Head of Investor Relations, Rubrik

781.367.0733

IR@rubrik.com

Public Relations Contact

Jessica Moore

VP, Global Communications, Rubrik

415.244.6565

jessica.moore@rubrik.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250213010147:0/)
