---
title: "News Highlights: Top Global Markets News of the Day - Wednesday at 11 AM ET"
date: "2025-02-13 00:15:00"
summary: "Inflation Heated Up in January, Freezing the FedConsumer prices rose 3%, extending a recent pattern of increases at the start of the year that likely derails the prospect for Fed rate cuts so long as the economy remains solid.OPEC Sticks to Oil-Demand View, Flags U.S. Trade Policy RisksThe cartel stuck..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

**Inflation Heated Up in January, Freezing the Fed**

Consumer prices rose 3%, extending a recent pattern of increases at the start of the year that likely derails the prospect for Fed rate cuts so long as the economy remains solid.

**OPEC Sticks to Oil-Demand View, Flags U.S. Trade Policy Risks**

The cartel stuck to its oil-demand forecast after reaffirming plans to gradually hike output from April, but said Trump's trade policy was injecting a dose of uncertainty into markets.

**BOE's Greene Says Key Rate Must Remain Restrictive to Tame Inflation**

Supply constraints rather than soft demand caused recent weakness in the U.K. economy, suggesting to BOE member Megan Greene that borrowing costs will have to stay restrictive to tame inflation.

**Dow, Nasdaq Fall After Inflation Hits 3%**

S&P 500, Nasdaq-100 and Dow industrials all fell after the consumer-price index rose in January from a year earlier.

**Why Tariffs Will Make Car Insurance Even More Expensive**

Costlier cars or auto parts can increase claims costs, which take time to filter through to car-insurance rates.

**House Republicans Release Blueprint for Tax Relief, Spending Cuts After Tense Talks**

The Senate is moving ahead with its own narrower plan focusing on border security.

**European Defense Startups Drive $5.2 Billion Funding Spree in 2024**

European defense startups were the main growth driver behind a record $5.2 billion in venture capital funding spent on tech companies such as AI software developer Helsing and drone maker Tekever, according to a report.

**Trump Advisers Eye Bank Regulator Consolidation After Targeting CFPB**

Pathways under discussion would attempt to merge the FDIC, OCC without input from Congress.

**America's Most Famous Stock-Market Measure Is More Broken Than Usual**

The Dow Jones Industrial Average draws outsize attention, presenting a distorted picture of what's going on with stocks.

**Forget CPI. This market indicator says inflation may stay above 2% for years.**

Investors and traders were bracing for Wednesday's consumer-price index report for January to mostly reflect either little change from or a slight improvement over the final month of 2024. Yet one part of the financial market continued to flash worrisome signs about future price gains.

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250212009859:0-news-highlights-top-global-markets-news-of-the-day-wednesday-at-11-am-et/)
