---
title: "Global Equities Roundup: Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-10 21:55:00"
summary: "The latest Market Talks covering Equities. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.0855 ET - Shifts in consumer demand and food regulation are posing risks for many big food makers, but Hain Celestial says it sees developments as a tailwind. The organic food maker says its products use..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The latest Market Talks covering Equities. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.

0855 ET - Shifts in consumer demand and food regulation are posing risks for many big food makers, but Hain Celestial says it sees developments as a tailwind. The organic food maker says its products use no artificial colors, including Red 3, which the FDA recently banned in food. Hain also says it has been working with experts to understand the nutritional needs of weight-loss drug users, and that it plans to begin marketing some of its goods to those consumers in the near future. "Our positioning and free-from-artificials portfolio is a true differentiator, particularly in the US," says Hain CEO Wendy Davidson, noting that Hain only uses colors from natural sources like fruits and vegetables.(jesse.newman@wsj.com)

0854 ET - Elliott Management hasn't made a hostile approach to the BP board and will seek a more "suggestivist" approach to get its ideas across, AJ Bell investment director Russ Mould writes. Elliott is reportedly seeking better shareholder value but it is hard to see how it can campaign for higher dividends or share buybacks, he writes. In 2024, BP delivered $5 billion in dividends and ran share buybacks worth $7.3 billion, he says. Elliott might want BP to refocus its strategy on oil-and-gas production, better allocate capex, or shift its listing to the U.S., Mould says. Shares trade up 7.3% at 464.65 pence. (adam.whittaker@wsj.com)

0851 ET - Barclays thinks Friday's 26% plunge in Newell Brands was likely overdone. Analyst Lauren Lieberman says in a note that while guidance came in below street estimates and the company reported a weak quarter, "not one investor we spoke to viewed Newell's share price reaction... as warranted (and nor do we)." Lieberman says Wall Street "is trying to rationalize what feels like an irrational move." The analyst reiterates her overweight recommendation on Newell Brands and $11 price target. Newell is up 4.2% to $7.43 premarket. (Natasha.Khan@wsj.com)

0831 ET - Danish wind-turbine maker Vestas remains well-positioned to execute against a strong backlog, with margin guidance conservative for 2025, Deutsche Bank analyst John Kim writes. The market is pricing in quite a bit of risk into the Vestas share, which feels unjustified given its market position, onshore wind competitiveness, and continued growth in key areas, the bank says. That said, the company has battled issues within the service business, with recent regulation not positive for wind. "We recognize the issues but see more upside risk than downside at current levels." The bank lifts its target price to 150 Danish kroner from 145 kroner. It rates the stock buy. Shares trade 2.9% lower at 102.70 kroner. (dominic.chopping@wsj.com)

0831 ET - British American Tobacco's progress on new category products--which includes vapes, heated tobacco and nicotine pouches--will be closely watched by investors, industry analyst Tobacco Insider says. The FTSE 100 tobacco group is facing pressure from peer Philip Morris given the relative success with the new categories segment, which represent 40% of total Morris' revenue, says Cem Ozguven, founder and managing director at Tobacco Insider. The company's U.S. volumes are also under pressure given the surge of illicit disposable vapes in the U.S., he adds. "De-leveraging and any hints on the expansion of share buybacks are other important points to watch," he adds. Shares are up 1.25%. (michael.susin@wsj.com)

0830 ET - Maersk's fourth quarter showed strong performance across all divisions, driven by volume growth and high freight rates, but the outlook for container shipping remains uncertain in 2025, AlphaValue analyst Helene Coumes writes. The outlook depends on the reopening of the Red Sea, which will impact supply. Shorter routes that will become available when the route reopens, coupled with new vessel deliveries, should add total capacity of up to 4 million containers, Coumes adds. However, carriers can manage capacity through sailing at slower speeds and gradual scrapping of older vessels, which was low in 2024. On the demand side, Maersk is optimistic, anticipating volume growth of 4%, although higher U.S. tariffs could hit final demand and trade. Maersk shares trade 1.7% higher at 11,475 Danish kroner. (dominic.chopping@wsj.com)

0813 ET - Hain Celestial lowers its annual guidance amid problems in the company's snacks and personal care businesses. The organic food maker says poor "in-store performance" in snacks hurt Hain's F2Q results, with problems tied to marketing and promotions. Hain also experienced challenges with tea ingredients, the company says. Hain cuts its outlook for both earnings and sales in 2025, and says it is exploring strategic options for its personal care business. Hain posts sales of $411M, below analyst estimates, and its adjusted EPS also misses expectations. Hain Celestial is off 7% premarket. (jesse.newman@wsj.com)

0758 ET - ArcelorMittal says urgent support is needed to bolster the competitiveness and sustainability of European steelmaking, just as the U.S. is expected to put 25% tariffs on steel and aluminium imports. The Luxembourg-based steelmaker said it supports trade measures designed to protect the steel sector from unfair trade practices and address the glut in market. It says the steel industry is contending with significant excess global capacity with the market in Europe facing subdued demand and record-high imports. Foreign steel imports to Europe hold a 27% market share, ArcelorMittal says. Shares trade down 2.2% at 26.77 euros. (pierre.bertrand@wsj.com)

0735 ET - Porsche's 2025 outlook disappointed, with the carmaker guiding for 10%-12% return on sales, a sharp 350 basis point shortfall to consensus, Citi analysts Harald C Hendrikse and Soumava Banerjee write. The estimate would also be equivalent to an EBIT 1.5 billion euros lower than consensus expectations, they say. "While Porsche highlights 800 million euros of additional costs, this doesn't fully account for the shortfall, suggesting execution gaps." Porsche is a luxury brand and is not generating profitability in line with that, Citi says, adding that it is hard to see why investors would assume Porsche profitability can get close to the 17%-19% range set at the IPO. Citi rates Porsche stock at buy with a 82 euro target price. Shares trade 1.1% higher at 56.16 euros. (dominic.chopping@wsj.com)

0700 ET - Norsk Hydro has more than 20 sites in the U.S., as well as plants in Mexico and Canada that could be affected by U.S. tariffs on steel and aluminum imports, a spokesman for the company said. Though the company allocates most of its annual Norwegian aluminum production to the European market, it has close to 6,000 employees in the U.S. The aluminum and renewable-energy company says it is preparing for different scenarios but that it is still too early to say how tariffs would affect its operations in the long term. President Trump announced plans to introduce 25% tariffs on imports of steel and aluminum on every nation exporting the metals to the U.S. Norsk Hydro shares trade 0.2% lower at 67.68 Norwegian kroner. (pierre.bertrand@wsj.com)

0645 ET - Balfour Beatty's investment portfolio is an attractive asset, Panmure Liberum analysts Joe Brent and Joe Walker say in a research note. The U.K builder's portfolio has made a net distribution to the company every year since 2014, the analysts say. The lowest distribution was in 2020, during which no sales occurred due to the coronavirus pandemic, they say. The business should help to underpin distributions to Balfour's shareholders via dividends and share buybacks, they say. News on share buybacks is expected to be announced alongside the full-year results on March 12, they say. Shares trade 0.9% higher at 470 pence. (nina.kienle@wsj.com)

0618 ET - Porsche's recently issued 2025 outlook implies a significant reset of near-term expectations, with margin guidance of 10%-12% versus consensus at 14.4%, Berenberg analyst Romain Gourvil writes. Although strategic readjustments at the luxury car maker were largely anticipated, related investments seem higher than expected, he adds. "This may add pressure to near-term multiples until Porsche can demonstrate it can sustainably deliver margins of 17%-plus, which is likely now to be heavily discounted by investors." Berenberg lowers its operating profit estimates by around 20% for 2025-26, downgrades its rating to hold from buy and lowers its price target to 62 euros from 75 euros. Shares trade 1.5% higher at 56.38 euros. (dominic.chopping@wsj.com)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250210005639:0/)
