---
title: "Global Energy Roundup: Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-13 16:19:00"
summary: "The latest Market Talks covering Energy markets. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.0818 GMT - Legrand's guidance for 2025 isn't very clear as it doesn't provide specific organic growth targets, Jefferies analysts say in a research note. The French electrical and digital building infrastructure manufacturer posted solid..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The latest Market Talks covering Energy markets. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.

0818 GMT - Legrand's guidance for 2025 isn't very clear as it doesn't provide specific organic growth targets, Jefferies analysts say in a research note. The French electrical and digital building infrastructure manufacturer posted solid fourth-quarter revenue and adjusted profit results ahead of consensus estimates. North America was the standout, growing 12.9%, compared to consensus of 5.7%, the analysts say. Legrand guides for total revenue growth of 6% to 10%, including organic and scope--focused on growth related to acquisitions--. Consensus estimates see organic growth above 4% and scope above 3%, Jefferies says. Shares trade 8% higher at 104.9 euros. (nina.kienle@wsj.com)

0751 GMT - Oiltek International's 2025-2026 earnings are supported by its order book, CGS International's William Tng says in a research report, as the brokerage maintains its add rating for the stock. Management said that it's optimistic on the outlook for the next two years, as the company's order book of MYR354.9 million as of Feb. 12 is expected to be completed over the next 18-24 months, the analyst notes. Management also continues to see order-win opportunities in its edible and non-edible oil refinery segment, given population growth and growing food demand, Tng notes. However, the brokerage trims the target price to S$1.43 from S$1.44, based on estimated peer-sector average 2026 price-to-earnings of 18.3x versus the previous forecast of 18.4x. Shares are 2.6% higher at S$1.18. (ronnie.harui@wsj.com)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250213004059:0/)
