---
title: "GE HealthCare Stock Is Rising on Strong Earnings and Outlook — Barrons.com"
date: "2025-02-13 23:55:00"
summary: "Al RootShares of GE HealthCare Technologies rose early Thursday after the medical imaging company reported better-than-expected fourth-quarter earnings and gave solid guidance for 2025.Guidance even includes the impact of President Donald Trump's tariffs on China.GE HeatlhCare on Thursday reported adjusted earnings per share of $1.45 from sales of $5.3 billion...."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Al Root

Shares of GE HealthCare Technologies rose early Thursday after the medical imaging company reported better-than-expected fourth-quarter earnings and gave solid guidance for 2025.

Guidance even includes the impact of President Donald Trump's tariffs on China.

GE HeatlhCare on Thursday reported adjusted earnings per share of $1.45 from sales of $5.3 billion. Wall Street was looking for $1.26 and $5.3 billion, respectively. A year ago, GE HealthCare reported profit of $1.18 per share from sales of $5.2 billion.

"We were pleased with the strong momentum in orders, backlog, and book-to-bill that we saw in the fourth quarter," said CEO Peter Arduini in a news release. "We remain committed to our precision care strategy for growth, supported by innovation, productivity initiatives, and commercial execution."

Fourth-quarter orders increased 6% year over year and were 109% of sales.

Looking ahead, the midpoints of the company's earnings and sales guidance for 2025 are $4.68 per share and $20.2 billion, respectively. Wall Street currently projects earnings of $4.66 and sales of $20.4 billion, up almost 4% from 2024.

EPS guidance looked solid despite sales guidance coming in a little light. The guidance, however, does estimate the impact of new Trump tariffs on China. The exact impact of tariffs, however, wasn't quantified.

Overall, China accounted for almost 11% of total sales this past year.

GE HealthCare shares were up 7.3% in early trading at $92.17. The S&P 500 and Dow Jones Industrial Average were up about 0.4% and 0.1%, respectively.

"Big EPS beat, 2025 guidance seems a good place to start," wrote Citi analyst Joanne Wuensch in a Thursday report. She was also encouraged by order growth in the quarter.

Wuensch rates GE HealthCare stock at Buy with a $103 price target.

Coming into Thursday, GE HealthCare stock has risen about 4% over the past 12 months. Earnings per share grew 14% year over year in 2024, and the stock trades for about 18.4 times estimated 2025 earnings, which is below the market multiple of closer to 22 times. Still, a weak outlook for Chinese business has weighed on investor sentiment.

Write to Al Root at allen.root@dowjones.com

This content was created by Barron's, which is operated by Dow Jones & Co. Barron's is published independently from Dow Jones Newswires and The Wall Street Journal.

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250213007339:0/)
