---
title: "Nymex Overview: Petroleum Futures Are Up Across the Board Ahead of Midday — OPIS"
date: "2025-02-12 01:14:00"
summary: "Petroleum futures were higher in late morning trading Tuesday and much of the market's attention is focused West Coast gasoline prices and natural gas and distillate values in the Northwest Europe.Petroleum contracts were up across the board late Tuesday morning, despite background inventory numbers that might typically be viewed as..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Petroleum futures were higher in late morning trading Tuesday and much of the market's attention is focused West Coast gasoline prices and natural gas and distillate values in the Northwest Europe.

Petroleum contracts were up across the board late Tuesday morning, despite background inventory numbers that might typically be viewed as uneventful.

Gasoline futures have taken a back seat to U.S. spot motor fuel values. OPIS earlier Tuesday reported various grades of gasoline prices at 60cts, 95cts and 42cts over the NYMEX March RBOB contract. That put spot prices at $2.75/gal in Los Angeles, $3.09/gal in San Francisco and $2.56/gal in the Pacific Northwest. West Coast market sources blamed refinery outages for the spot prices in the region that were as much as $1.05/gal above some of the prices in East of the Rockies' markets.

The NYMEX March RBOB contract was up by 3.94cts to $2.1436/gal ahead of midday.

The April RBOB contract was about 22cts above March thanks to the spring switch to lower RVP fuel.

Many U.S. traders were keeping a close eye on Northwest Europe where natural gas prices rose above an oil equivalent price of $102/bbl in morning trading, a number that is supporting global diesel prices.

The March ULSD contract was 5.14cts higher at $2.5023/gal, putting the East Coast distillate margin to Brent crude at just under $30/bbl.

Diesel margins along the Gulf Coast weren't far behind at about $29/bbl over West Texas Intermediate crude.

Crude oil contracts were seeing smaller gains. Some saber-rattling in the Mideast likely led to occasional bids for Brent, which ahead of midday was up by 99cts to $76.86/bbl. The March WTI contract was 85cts higher at $73.17/bbl.

Crude oil supplies are widely considered to be at comfortable levels and the market is just 48 days from April 1, when OPEC+ member nations are scheduled to begin unwinding earlier cuts to output.

This content was created by Oil Price Information Service, which is operated by Dow Jones & Co. OPIS is run independently from Dow Jones Newswires and The Wall Street Journal.

-Reporting by Tom Kloza, tkloza@opisnet.com; Editing by Jeff Barber, jbarber@opisnet.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250211008155:0/)
