---
title: "Dynex Capital, Inc. Declares Monthly Common Stock Dividend of $.15"
date: "2025-02-13 05:01:00"
summary: "Dynex Capital, Inc. Declares Monthly Common Stock Dividend of $.15GLEN ALLEN, Va.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--February 12, 2025--Dynex Capital, Inc. announced today the Company's Board of Directors has declared a cash dividend of $0.15 per share on its Common Stock for February 2025. The dividend is payable on March 3, 2025, to shareholders..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Dynex Capital, Inc. Declares Monthly Common Stock Dividend of $.15

GLEN ALLEN, Va.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--February 12, 2025--

Dynex Capital, Inc. announced today the Company's Board of Directors has declared a cash dividend of $0.15 per share on its Common Stock for February 2025. The dividend is payable on March 3, 2025, to shareholders of record as of February 24, 2025.

About Dynex Capital

Dynex Capital, Inc. is a financial services company committed to ethical stewardship of stakeholders' capital; employing comprehensive risk management and disciplined capital allocation to generate dividend income and long-term total returns through the diversified financing of real estate assets in the United States. Dynex operates as a REIT and is internally managed to maximize stakeholder alignment. Additional information about Dynex Capital, Inc. is available at www.dynexcapital.com.

Forward Looking Statement

"Safe Harbor" Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995: Statements in this press release regarding the business of Dynex Capital, Inc. that are not historical facts are "forward-looking statements" that involve risks and uncertainties. For a discussion of these risks and uncertainties, which could cause actual results to differ from those contained in the forward-looking statements, see "Risk Factors" in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K and other reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.

View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20250212240302/en/

CONTACT: Alison Griffin

804-217-5897

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250212012015:0/)
