---
title: "Global Forex and Fixed Income Roundup: Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-13 16:25:00"
summary: "The latest Market Talks covering FX and Fixed Income. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.0824 GMT - European defense stocks faced pressure in early-morning trade Thursday, following the call between U.S. President Trump and Russian President Vladimir Putin over a potential cease-fire in the Ukraine-Russia war. Germany's..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The latest Market Talks covering FX and Fixed Income. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.

0824 GMT - European defense stocks faced pressure in early-morning trade Thursday, following the call between U.S. President Trump and Russian President Vladimir Putin over a potential cease-fire in the Ukraine-Russia war. Germany's Rheinmetall, one of the biggest beneficiaries from the conflict, is down 2.1% at 713.20 euros, while the German sensor solutions provider Hensoldt falls 7.1% at 33.38 euros, and Renk Group losses 2.2% at 23.92 euros. In the U.K., BAE Systems is down 0.3% at 12.05 pounds, and Italy's Leonardo falls 2.2% at 29.26 euros. European foreign ministers issued a joint statement Wednesday saying that they want to put Ukraine in a position of strength, but without a budgetary announcement this is unlikely to prevent significant pressure on European defense stocks, Jefferies analysts Chloe Lemarie and Ben Brown say. (cristina.gallardo@wsj.com)

0824 GMT - Faster Bank of England rate cuts are still possible, despite the U.K. reporting stronger-than-expected economic growth in the fourth quarter of last year, Suren Thiru, economics director at ICAEW, says in a note. The 0.1% growth in the fourth quarter shows the loss of confidence following the budget was more than offset by a bumper December, where strong services activity helped boost overall output, he says. However, the loss of business confidence following the budget adds to longstanding difficulties, including poor productivity. With BOE policymakers more worried about a stagnating economy than rising inflation, another rate cut sooner rather than later remains on the table, he says. (edward.frankl@wsj.com)

0822 GMT - Sterling could hand back its gains if investors reassess Thursday's seemingly better-than-expected U.K. economic growth data, ING analysts say in a note. Growth was driven by a massive rise in inventories, which are volatile and don't tell much about underlying economic fundamentals, they say. Consumption was flat, business investment fell sharply and net trade was flat. "So it's a lacklustre story, which puts pressure on the U.K. Treasury to find savings." ING is negative on sterling for the second quarter and expects EUR/GBP to stay above the 0.8300-0.8350 this month. EUR/GBP falls 0.1% to 0.8340. GBP/USD rises 0.4% to 1.2493. (renae.dyer@wsj.com)

0819 GMT - The dollar falls as hopes for a deal to end the Ukraine-Russia conflict reduce demand for safe-haven assets, Swissquote Bank analyst Ipek Ozkardeskaya says in a note. President Trump said he had a constructive call with Russian President Vladimir Putin Wednesday with the leaders agreeing to start negotiations for a peace deal. The dollar's decline comes even after U.S. inflation data Wednesday exceeded expectations. This encourages other currencies to recover losses against the dollar such as the euro, Ozkardeskaya says. The DXY dollar index falls 0.3% to 107.611, having earlier hit a one-week low of 107.502. The euro rises 0.4% to $1.0425 after reaching a one-week high of $1.0441 earlier, according to FactSet. (renae.dyer@wsj.com)

0806 GMT - Data showing small, but better-than-expected, U.K. growth in the fourth quarter gift Treasury chief Rachel Reeves a slither of good news and relieves some stress on the government, says Wealth Club's Isaac Stell in a note. The government is under pressure to execute on their manifesto promise to deliver growth, says Stell, who is investment manager at the broker. "With Reeves committed to her non-negotiable fiscal rules, it is likely that public expenditure will be cut to balance the books with the prospect of additional tax hikes looming in the background." The impact of any additional taxes will likely hamper growth going forward, he says. U.K. GDP rose 0.1% between October and December. (emese.bartha@wsj.com)

0753 GMT - The U.K. can't expect a major pickup in growth in the coming months, says Deloitte's Debapratim De. The British economy unexpectedly grew in the fourth quarter, but only by 0.1%, and "underlying momentum remains weak," De writes in a note. "We continue to expect sluggish growth through spring, with the fiscal easing from last year's Autumn Budget driving a pickup in activity over summer," he says. (joshua.kirby@wsj.com; @joshualeokirby))

0750 GMT - An unexpected rate hold by the Philippines central bank is likely a pause rather than a halt to rate cuts, Capital Economics says. The central bank reiterated that it is still in an easing cycle, and that the decision to stand pat was due to uncertainties regarding U.S. trade policy, says senior Asia economist Gareth Leather. U.S. trade policy will remain uncertain for a while, and BSP clearly needs time before it decides on a response, he adds. "Our assumption is that the Philippines will be hit by a 10% universal tariff, but that the impact will be relatively small." If inflation stays under control, then further rate cuts are likely over the coming months, he says. (fabiana.negrinochoa@wsj.com)

0746 GMT - The U.K.'s small trade surplus with the U.S. is likely to support hopes that the U.K. can minimize or avoid any potential tariffs imposed by President Trump, says Samuel Edwards, head of dealing at Ebury. Data from the Office for National Statistics show the U.K. exported 2.1 billion pounds worth of goods more than it imported in 2024. The small size of the surplus is especially true in comparison with many of the U.S.'s trading partners, Edwards writes in a note. After the impact of 25% steel and aluminum tariffs, any further measures could see the pain spread into other key sectors in the U.K. at a time of economic uncertainty and stuttering economic growth, he says. (edward.frankl@wsj.com)

0742 GMT - The U.K. isn't facing a stagflation crisis, says Joe Nellis, economic adviser at consultancy MHA. The economy unexpectedly grew in the fourth quarter, although only by 0.1%, figures show Thursday, boosted by a strong showing in December. There remain reasons to worry, Nellis says, pointing to shaky business confidence and diminishing fiscal space for the Treasury to meet its spending plans. But fears over 'stagflation'--a combination of high inflation and stagnant economic growth--are overblown, Nellis tells clients in a note. "This comparison is overly pessimistic," he says. "Our current economic malaise - and it is a malaise - is a world away from the stagflation of the 1970s."(joshua.kirby@wsj.com; @joshualeokirby)

0723 GMT - Sterling rises after the latest U.K. economic growth data came in better than expected. The economy grew 0.4% on month in December, beating the 0.1% forecast by economists in a WSJ survey. In the fourth quarter, the economy expanded 0.1% on quarter. Despite exceeding expectations, economic momentum remains "dismal," Pepperstone strategist Michael Brown says in a note. The fourth-quarter figures reinforce the case for 2025 to be a year of stagflation where the economy experiences stagnant growth, stubbornly high inflation and elevated unemployment, he says. The Bank of England is unlikely to cut interest rates more rapidly. GBP/USD rises to a one-week high of 1.2517 after the data from 1.2489 beforehand. EUR/GBP falls to 0.8336 from 0.8352. (renae.dyer@wsj.com)

0719 GMT - Stabilization may lie ahead for bond markets as this week's duration-heavy supply in the eurozone is cleared and the macro calendar thins out, says Commerzbank Research's Hauke Siemssen in a note. However, positive risk sentiment on the latest headlines around Ukraine limits the potential in Bunds, the rates strategist says. U.S. President Trump said he and Russian President Vladimir Putin on Wednesday had agreed to open immediate talks to end the war in Ukraine. Eurozone government bond supply will be modest in the remainder of the week, with only Italy auctioning 4.75 billion-5.75 billion euros in 2027- and 2031-dated bonds on Thursday. The 10-year Bund yield is little changed at 2.475%, according to Tradeweb. (emese.bartha@wsj.com)

0710 GMT - U.S. Treasurys pare some of Wednesday's weakness that was prompted by above-consensus inflation data. The 2- and 10-year Treasury yields fall 3 basis points to 4.338% and 4.606%, respectively, according to Tradeweb. On Wednesday, the 2-year Treasury yield increased 7.5 basis points to 4.365%, while the 10-year Treasury yield rose 10 basis points to 4.637%, according to Tradeweb. "With inflation still above target and the Federal Reserve on hold, fundamentals take center stage," says Global X's Scott Helfstein in a note. However, large and small companies see strong sales and earnings growth so far this quarter and higher rates aren't yet much of an impediment, the head of investment strategy says. (emese.bartha@wsj.com)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250213004096:0/)
