---
title: "Global Equities Roundup: Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-08 05:04:00"
summary: "The latest Market Talks covering Equities. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.1604 ET - U.S. stocks fall as January job additions slow from the previous month, though the unemployment rate unexpectedly slips, wage growth was strong and additions over the previous two months were revised higher. Consumer..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The latest Market Talks covering Equities. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.

1604 ET - U.S. stocks fall as January job additions slow from the previous month, though the unemployment rate unexpectedly slips, wage growth was strong and additions over the previous two months were revised higher. Consumer sentiment falls to its lowest reading since July 2024 as inflation expectations for the year ahead rose to its highest level since November 2023. This adds to expectations that the Fed will pause any rate cuts longer into the year. Amazon loses 4.1% after offering lower-than-expected guidance, while planning on huge AI-related capital spending. DJIA drops 444 points, or 1%, to 44303, the S&P 500 loses 1% to 6025 and the Nasdaq falls 1.4% to 19523. All three indexes fall modestly for the week. (patrick.sullivan@wsj.com)

1510 ET - Gold briefly climbs to new intraday highs over $2,900 a troy ounce following economic data early in the session, before ending up 0.4% to $2,867.30 an ounce. It's the second-highest ever close. Analysts are calling for gold to continue its rise to $3,000 an ounce. "The gold bull market looks set to continue under Trump 2.0 with trade wars and geopolitical tensions reinforcing the reserve diversification/de-dollarization trend," Citi says in a note. SPDR Gold rises 0.3%. (kirk.maltais@wsj.com)

1407 ET - Coty will likely remain bearish around the state of the beauty industry in its upcoming results, expected for Monday. While the company will likely benefit from a growing fragrance market in the U.S., its color cosmetics business is expected to be weaker. That market is rapidly slowing, according to L'Oréal's Finance Chief Christophe Babule. Coty, together with its peers in the beauty industry, have lost billions of dollars in market cap. Coty currently has a market value of around $5.9 billion, down around 40% from a year ago. e.l.f. Beauty, one of its biggest competitors on the CoverGirl brand side, has seen its stock plunge nearly 60%, while Estée Lauder has lost 55%. Industry giant L'Oreal has remained in a more stable position, but has still experienced stock losses of around 19%. (sabela.ojea@wsj.com; @sabelaojeaguix)

1352 ET [Dow Jones]--The number of rigs drilling for oil in the U.S. edged up by one this week to 480, and was down by 19 from the same time last year, oil services company Baker Hughes reports. Rigs drilling for natural gas rose by two to 100, compared with 121 a year ago. The EIA estimates that U.S. oil production will average 13.5 million barrels a day this year versus 13.2 million b/d in 2024, with growth slowing to less than 1% in 2026. While oil companies appreciate that the Trump administration is friendly to the industry with deregulation and faster permitting, "that's only going to do so much," says Kenny Zhu of Global X. "If the market fundamentals aren't there, the prices and projections for demand are not where they need to be, I think that will ultimately be the driving factor." (anthony.harrup@wsj.com)The market is embracing Bill Ackman's acquired stake in Uber Technologies through Pershing Square, driving gains for both the billionaire's investment fund and the ride-sharing app. Shares of the San Francisco-based company are currently trading up around 9.2% at $76.45, making Ackman's 30.3-million-share position worth $2.32 billion. The executive believes Uber is highly undervalued and says it will share more about its plans for the company shortly. "We believe that Uber is one of the best managed and highest quality businesses in the world. Remarkably, it can still be purchased at a massive discount to its intrinsic value," he said in a post on X.(sabela.ojea@wsj.com; @sabelaojeaguix)

1304 ET - Newell Brands has been reducing its dependence on China for the last few years and started accelerating that effort about a year ago, CEO Chris Peterson says on a call with analysts. The maker of Sharpies and Yankee Candles has already completed multiple insourcing products, including for finished goods and raw material components in its writing, baby and home businesses, the CEO says. Newell is also moving production from China to alternate geographies, he says. Imports from China currently account for about 15% of the company's total cost of goods sold, and a large portion of that are baby products that are exempt from tariffs, the CEO says. Newell aims to get that figure down to 10% by the end of the year. (dean.seal@wsj.com)

1302 ET - Pinterest's AI thesis is taking shape, BofA Securities analysts say in a research note. The social-media platform's growing AI integration and the potential for topline acceleration are driving confidence among investors, the analysts say. "New AI-powered targeting & automation tools have a multi-year runway to boost conversion rates and further unlock platform's potential for shopping ads in 2025," the analysts add. Shares jump 18% on higher-than-expected revenue guidance for the current quarter. (sabela.ojea@wsj.com; @sabelaojeaguix)

1258 ET - Airbus investors will be monitoring what aircraft delivery target the European plane maker will set for the year when the company reports fourth-quarter results on Feb. 20, RBC Capital Markets analysts write in a note to clients. Airbus delivered 25 planes to customers in January, in what the analysts called a slow start to 2025. The company dispatched 766 commercial aircraft for the whole of 2024 and the analysts expect it to guide for roughly 825 deliveries this year. Commentary about supply chains will also be a key focus for investors, the analysts say. (mauro.orru@wsj.com)

1240 ET - Pinterest has managed to get its long-inconsistent engagement and monetization dynamics in sync, Benchmark analysts Mark Zgutowicz and Alex Lavigne say in a research note. That has come in part from artificial-intelligence efficiencies and a shift in marketing toward driving sales rather than just generating awareness or interest, the analysts say. The company's history of under-indexing its billions of unique first-party data seems to be in the rearview, they add. Growth in engagement across its developed markets suggests that the company's guidance for accelerating revenue growth in 1Q isn't temporary, the analysts say. Benchmark upgrades shares to buy from hold. Pinterest climbs 18%. (dean.seal@wsj.com)

1230 ET - Pinterest is using artificial intelligence to drive user engagement and ad targeting in a strategy that's similar to the one Meta Platforms has been excelling with so far, Oppenheimer analysts say in a research note. The social-media platform's AI tools have boosted both user engagement and returns for its advertisers, the analysts say. Weekly active users and monthly active users have improved. The company also boasts a better, older and more affluent audience than social-media competitor Snapchat, the analysts say. Pinterest surges 18% on higher-than-expected revenue guidance for the current quarter.(dean.seal@wsj.com)

1200 ET - Pinterest shares are surging on guidance for 13% to 15% revenue growth in 1Q that investors are likely seeing as a baseline for the rest of the year, Wedbush analysts say in a research note. Growth is expected to accelerate sequentially this year thanks to easing year-over-year comparisons, the analysts say. Revenue should also benefit from a lapping of weak ad spending from consumer packaged goods brands last year, which has already started to show some improvement so far in 1Q, the analysts say. Pinterest also guided for 1Q Ebitda of $155 million to $170 million, ahead of current Wall Street estimates, they say. Shares rise 17% to $39.44. (dean.seal@wsj.com)

1122 ET - Some customers who can switch from shell eggs to liquid eggs are trying to do that now, Chief Operating Officer Jeff Zadoks says in an earnings call. There's not enough supply available to meet the customer demand for liquid eggs, he added, given that liquid egg prices aren't as inflated. "As our supply comes back, that's something that we can take advantage of in the short term and hopefully in the medium to long-term to continue to add to our volumes," Zadoks says. Bird flu has ravaged U.S. poultry farms, and led to high egg prices. (roshan.fernandez@wsj.com)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250207010026:0/)
