---
title: "UniCredit To Balance Potential Deals With Shareholder Rewards This Year — 2nd Update"
date: "2025-02-11 20:38:00"
summary: "By Elena VardonUniCredit should be in a position to decide on a possible takeover of Germany's Commerzbank in a few quarters, its chief executive said as the Italian bank balances its dealmaking efforts at home and abroad with shareholder returns.The Italian bank is waiting to engage with the new German..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Elena Vardon

UniCredit should be in a position to decide on a possible takeover of Germany's Commerzbank in a few quarters, its chief executive said as the Italian bank balances its dealmaking efforts at home and abroad with shareholder returns.

The Italian bank is waiting to engage with the new German government after elections are held later this month before making a move, Andrea Orcel said in a call with analysts.

"If you go through the timeline, that takes you through three, four, five quarters, depending what you assume... If we were to launch a bid, the decision remains firmly with us and we would launch a bit when we are ready, not in automatic following of whatever we achieve in terms of negotiation with the government," he said.

UniCredit has been in the spotlight recently due to its appetite for dealmaking and has built up a 28% stake in Germany's Commerzbank, leapfrogging the government as the lender's largest shareholder and triggering political opposition. It also launched a surprise all-share offer for domestic peer Banco BPM.

"There is no risk of overlap between these two potential deals as they would be sequential and would be led by cyclical management teams in separate legal entities overseen by separate regulators," Orcel said.

The bank is sitting on 6.5 billion euros ($6.7 billion) in excess cash, which it aims to deploy to reward shareholders or use deals to gain scale as the European Central Bank's interest-rate cuts dent its top line.

The lender promised that annual shareholder distributions in the 2025 to 2027 period will exceed the 9 billion euros it returned in 2024. This will include a cash dividend payout--which was lifted to 50% of net profit from 40% as previously flagged--as well as any excess cash above regulatory requirements.

"Any M&A activity shall be executed solely if it further enhances our base case, it must be consistent with our strategy and meet our strict financial criteria, delivering returns that compare favorably to buying back our own shares," Orcel said in a call with analysts. He added that the bank isn't afraid to walk away if this high bar isn't met.

Last week, UniCredit also disclosed that it has built a stake in the country's largest insurer Generali over several months as it seeks to solidify its strategic position amid the complicated cross-holding of Italy's financial sector. The shareholding has now crossed the 5% threshold, Orcel said.

The comments came alongside the bank's quarterly results and guidance for the year ahead. UniCredit said it expects 2025 net profit to be broadly in line with 2024's result of 9.31 billion euros. Its net profit metric is adjusted for the previous year's losses from deferred tax assets--balance-sheet items reducing future tax obligations.

The lender guided for revenue net of loan loss provisions to slip due to the effect of lower interest rates and come in above 23 billion euros for 2025, compared with the 24.20 billion euro net result it reported for 2024. Total revenue for the year was 24.84 billion euros.

The expected slowdown is explained by a moderate fall in net interest income--the difference between what lenders earn from loans and pay for deposits--as well as further efforts to compress its Russia business, as fee growth in the mid-single digits won't fully offset the dip.

For the fourth quarter, UniCredit made 1.56 billion euros in adjusted net profit, which represented a 18% on-year fall but beat expectations of 1.44 billion euros taken from a company-compiled consensus. On a reported basis, net profit dropped 30% to 1.97 billion euros due to integration costs.

It also generated total revenue of 6.00 billion euros--against 5.96 billion euros a year prior--which topped consensus' 5.89 billion-euro estimate.

Looking ahead to 2027, the group hopes to make around 10 billion euros in net profit with a return on tangible equity above 17%.

Management's outlook reads well and the targets are ahead of current consensus expectations, Keefe, Bruyette & Woods wrote in a research note. JP Morgan analysts said they expect more resilience in revenues and that the profit guidance looks conservative.

Shares fell as low as 3.8% in early European trading. The stock has risen almost 63% over the past year.

Write to Elena Vardon at elena.vardon@wsj.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250211004346:0-unicredit-to-balance-potential-deals-with-shareholder-rewards-this-year-2nd-update/)
