---
title: "Global Forex and Fixed Income Roundup: Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-14 15:55:00"
summary: "The latest Market Talks covering FX and Fixed Income. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.0755 GMT - Beijing is likely to keep China's growth target at around 5% this year, Citi economists write in a note. The National People's Congress meeting, which starts March 5, will approve..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The latest Market Talks covering FX and Fixed Income. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.

0755 GMT - Beijing is likely to keep China's growth target at around 5% this year, Citi economists write in a note. The National People's Congress meeting, which starts March 5, will approve economic targets and the fiscal budget for 2025. The NPC targets won't be conditional on U.S.-China trade relations, as all the policy decisions are likely already made, they add. China is expected to maintain ambitious employment targets, while the consumer inflation target could be trimmed to around 2% for the first time since 2003 to reflect the low inflation reality in China, they say. Citi still expects fiscal expenditure to expand by 2.5 trillion yuan. With the PBOC staying in wait-and-see mode, Citi forecasts 50 bps policy rate cuts and a 100bp reduction in the reserve requirement ratio this year, starting from 2Q. (jiahui.huang@wsj.com; @ivy\_jiahuihuang)

0753 GMT - The dollar falls to a two-month low against a basket of currencies after President Trump announced plans for reciprocal tariffs to be assessed on a country-by-country basis as opposed to blanket tariffs. Such a process should "inevitably take some time" with investigations expected to complete by April 1 and remedies implemented immediately after, Deutsche Bank analysts say in a note. "In the meantime, questions whether this tariff threat will be used as a negotiating tool are likely to linger." The limited tariff news and lower yields after Thursday's U.S. producer prices data dented the dollar, they say. The DXY dollar index falls to a low of 106.962. (renae.dyer@wsj.com)

0753 GMT - Singapore is unlikely to be directly targeted by U.S. reciprocal tariffs, according to Maybank analysts in a note. Trump has announced reciprocal tariffs tailored to each U.S. trading partner, which may take effect as soon as April, they note. "We think Singapore is unlikely to be significantly affected, given that its [free trade agreement] with the U.S. has eliminated duties on most goods," they write. Singapore could also benefit from increased frontloading of orders in 1Q, as producers in other countries expedite their exports to the U.S. ahead of possible tariffs, they add. Maybank forecasts Singapore's 2025 GDP growth to moderate to 2.6%.(amanda.lee@wsj.com)

0750 GMT - U.S. Treasurys trade little changed in early European hours after President Trump ordered federal agencies on Thursday to explore how to adjust U.S. tariffs to match of those of other countries. Treasurys rallied Thursday, fully reversing Wednesday's CPI-triggered selloff. That said, Trump's tariffs measures continue to hang over markets. "The threat of those reciprocal tariffs, plus apparent upcoming announcements on further tariffs on cars, chips, and pharmaceutical products will thus hang over proceedings like the 'sword of Damocles' for a while yet," says Pepperstone's Michael Brown in a note. This creates choppy trading conditions and higher volatility, the senior research strategist says. The 10-year U.S. Treasury yield last trades 2 basis points higher at 4.545%, according to Tradeweb. (emese.bartha@wsj.com)

0749 GMT - The U.K.'s FTSE 100 index is expected to open slightly higher, up 0.1%, according to IG, while Germany's DAX looks set to open 0.4% lower after hitting record highs recently. The recent rally in stocks has been helped by earnings data, says XTB's Kathleen Brooks in a note. Traders have largely shrugged off tariff threats for now, but the prospect of Trump announcing tariffs against European goods still looms. President Trump ordered federal agencies on Thursday to explore how to adjust U.S. tariffs to match of those of other countries. Brooks says these could take longer to plan. France's CAC 40 is expected to open down 0.1%, according to IG. (jessica.fleetham@wsj.com)

0749 GMT - A rate cut by Malaysia's central bank is more likely than consensus thinks, Barclays economist Brian Tan says. Many have the view that Bank Negara's hands are tied by fears that Malaysia's coming petrol price hikes could drive inflation, but Tan sees other factors in play. GDP growth is slowing suggesting that policymakers are unlikely to be so confident about the strength of Malaysia's economy that they would look through U.S. tariffs, he says. The impact of tariffs could weaken momentum further, making a rate cut more plausible, he adds. Barclays's base case is for a cut in May, but it acknowledges a high degree of uncertainty around the timing, with the trigger likely to be significant U.S. tariffs. Barclays maintains its 2025-2026 GDP growth forecast at 4.0% each. (yingxian.wong@wsj.com)

0740 GMT - Singapore economy is expected to stay resilient this year, as strong local wage and employment growth should help cushion the impact of growing trade protectionism, says RHB Bank's Barnabas Gan. The city-state's negative output gap closed in 4Q 2024, coinciding with stronger-than-expected growth, Gan writes in a note. The shift toward a positive output gap is likely to continue into 1H, he says. Fiscal policy measures are likely to focus on stimulating domestic economic activity, he adds. RHB maintains Singapore's 2025 GDP growth forecast at 3.0%, which is at the top end of the official 1.0%-3.0% range. (amanda.lee@wsj.com)

0732 GMT - Taiwan is a potential target for reciprocal and semiconductor levies as Trump's tariff threats escalate, DBS's Ma Tieying says in a note. The senior economist estimates a hit of up to 0.9 percentage point to the island's GDP growth if such tariffs are imposed. However, Taiwan could mitigate the impact through bilateral negotiations, such as by reducing its import tariff rates on American goods, increasing imports of U.S. agricultural products, energy and automobiles, as well as boosting semiconductor investments in the U.S., she says. "A fiscal policy response is more likely, with targeted support for industries and companies negatively impacted by tariffs." DBS maintains its forecast for Taiwan's economy to grow 3.0% this year. (farah.elias@wsj.com)

0706 GMT - Thailand's economy is expected to have risen 3.8% on year in 4Q 2024, according to the median of 10 estimates compiled by The Wall Street Journal. That would compare with a 3.0% expansion in 3Q. There could be a "fairly healthy" GDP growth due to a low base, Citi analysts say in a note. Growth is expected to recover to the highest in more than two years, due to primary industries, Barclays analysts write in a note. The GDP data are due Monday. (amanda.lee@wsj.com)

0705 GMT - The front-loading of government bond issuance in the eurozone to the early part of the year has extended to February but looks set to end from March, Citi Research strategists Aman Bansal and Puja Sawant say in a note. "We expect the issuance to start declining from March, led by the big-4," the rates strategists say. They refer to France, Germany, Italy and Spain, the four largest sovereign issuers in the eurozone. The anticipated slowing in issuance might support tight eurozone bond valuations, they say. Italian BTPs are an exception as they look cheap, the strategists say. It is also likely to add to the risk sentiment boost from Ukraine headlines, which have potential implications for energy supply and economic growth, the strategists say. (emese.bartha@wsj.com)

0655 GMT - Bitcoin's pullback to the $96,000 zone from a peak of $109,000 in January 2025 reflects a bearish trend amid a market mood shaped by macroeconomic factors, says Antonio Di Giacomo, senior market analyst at XS.com. Amid geopolitical uncertainty and stock market fluctuations, institutional investors have reduced their exposure to crypto in search of safer assets, he says. Stronger-than-expected U.S. inflation data and Trump tariffs have contributed to volatility, with pressure on bitcoin exacerbated by tightening regulations in various jurisdictions, he adds. However, this could present an opportunity to accumulate. The analyst notes that the bitcoin ecosystem continues to show signs of long-term growth, with institutional adoption and blockchain infrastructure advancing. Bitcoin is last at $96,713. (fabiana.negrinochoa@wsj.com)

0651 GMT - The risk-on mood, combined with attractive yield levels and good eurozone government bond supply absorption, is still helping country spreads to tighten, say Societe Generale Research's rates strategists. "If there is no repricing higher of the European Central Bank terminal rate and the general appetite for eurozone government bonds continues, there is no reason to expect a sharp widening in spreads," they say in a note. Good news on the political front in France--with the government recently surviving a no-confidence vote--has also supported the 10-year French OAT-German Bund spread, they say. That said, Societe Generale Research maintains a defensive--or cautious--stance on French bonds. (emese.bartha@wsj.com)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250214003515:0/)
