---
title: "Market Talk Roundup: Latest on U.S. Politics"
date: "2025-02-10 22:28:00"
summary: "The latest Market Talks covering U.S. politics. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.0928 ET - The dollar weakens against most major currencies while dollar indexes rise, as markets react to a new set of tariffs announced by President Trump over the weekend. Both the ICE's DXY gauge..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The latest Market Talks covering U.S. politics. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.

0928 ET - The dollar weakens against most major currencies while dollar indexes rise, as markets react to a new set of tariffs announced by President Trump over the weekend. Both the ICE's DXY gauge and the broader WSJ Dollar Index rise around 0.1%, while the greenback weakens 0.2% against the euro and strengthens 0.3% versus the yen. The 25% levy on all steel and aluminum imports to the U.S. looks less likely to be avoided the way previous country-targeting tariffs were. Goldman Sachs' Stuart Jenkins writes that "we think they would have a more durable Dollar impact that the market is not yet fully pricing." (paulo.trevisani@wsj.com; @ptrevisani)

0911 ET - Treasury yields hover around Friday's settlement levels as the week once again starts with the threat of tariffs announced over the weekend. This time around, there seems to be less room for negotiation to avoid a 25% levy on steel and aluminium. Questions remain about how tariffs will impact inflation and Fed decisions on interest rates. Markets are mostly pricing not more than one cut this year, CME data show. That could be a sign of growing concerns about inflation. Chair Powell has his semiannual report to Congress tomorrow at the Senate and Wednesday at the House. The 10-year is at 4.486% and the two-year at 4.271%. (paulo.trevisani@wsj.com; @ptrevisani)

0828 ET - The euro could strengthen against the dollar if the EU avoids harsh tariffs from Trump, Morgan Stanley analysts say in a note. "Our base case includes gradual, targeted tariffs on the EU later in 2025, preceded by a reinstatement of the Section 232 steel and aluminum tariffs," they say. Such targeted tariffs would unlikely have a significant impact on euro-area economic growth. Morgan Stanley continues to advise buying the euro, targeting a level of $1.08. The euro is last up 0.2% at $1.0316. (renae.dyer@wsj.com)

0803 ET - Base metal prices are mixed, with LME three-month copper down 0.3% at $9,408 a metric ton and LME three-month aluminum up 0.2% at $2,632.50 a ton. LME aluminum has been holding steady after President Trump said he will impose 25% tariffs on all imports of aluminum and steel into the U.S. The U.S. imports significant volumes of aluminum and steel from Canada, and with Trump back in the White House, uncertainty and unpredictability are running high, ING analysts say in a note. A prolonged trade conflict will slow global growth and hit industrial metals demand, ING says. In 2018, Trump imposed 10% and 25% tariffs on imported aluminum and steel respectively to boost domestic production--the duties on Mexico and Canada were lifted a year later after a new free trade agreement with the U.S., ING adds. (joseph.hoppe@wsj.com)

0758 ET - ArcelorMittal says urgent support is needed to bolster the competitiveness and sustainability of European steelmaking, just as the U.S. is expected to put 25% tariffs on steel and aluminium imports. The Luxembourg-based steelmaker said it supports trade measures designed to protect the steel sector from unfair trade practices and address the glut in market. It says the steel industry is contending with significant excess global capacity with the market in Europe facing subdued demand and record-high imports. Foreign steel imports to Europe hold a 27% market share, ArcelorMittal says. Shares trade down 2.2% at 26.77 euros. (pierre.bertrand@wsj.com)

0731 ET - The Canadian dollar is at risk of renewed depreciation given the continued threat of tariffs from President Trump, Monex Europe analysts say in a note. The currency recovered some ground after Trump last week announced a 30-day suspension of tariffs on Canada and Mexico. However, tariff risks remain elevated, the analysts say. "Markets will watch for further policy concessions from Canada and whether the tariff suspension becomes permanent." Canada's jobs report on Friday will also be key with employment trends likely influencing Bank of Canada interest rate expectations. USD/CAD falls 0.3% to 1.4338. (renae.dyer@wsj.com)

0615 ET - Shares of U.S. steelmakers rise premarket after President Trump said he plans to impose 25% tariffs Monday on steel and aluminum imports. U.S. Steel shares are up 8.3% in premarket trading after closing last week at $36.93. Nucor shares are also up 8.5%, while Steel Dynamics shares are 5.7% higher. Nucor shares closed last week at $130.26 while Steel Dynamics closed at $126.71. President Trump announced plans to introduce 25% tariffs on imports of steel and aluminum, with the levies applying to every nation exporting the metals to the U.S. (pierre.bertrand@wsj.com)

0517 ET - U.S. tariffs on steel imports would only have a very limited impact on Thyssenkrupp at present, a spokesman for the company says. Europe is the German industrial and steel group's main market for steel and what the company does export to the U.S. is negligible and mostly concerns high-quality products, the company says. Sales in the U.S. are mainly from Thyssenkrupp's trading business and its automotive supply business, operations which are supported by a significant share of local manufacturing, Thyssenkrupp says. The company adds that much of the production for U.S. customers takes place within the U.S., which minimizes the risks associated with tariffs. Thyssenkrupp says, however, that it is monitoring developments. Shares trade up 0.07% to 4.59 euros. (pierre.bertrand@wsj.com)

0449 ET - The euro faces a hit from the prospect of U.S. tariffs and possibly elevated U.S. inflation data this week, ING's Chris Turner says in a note. Trump recently said he would impose tariffs on the EU soon. This could send the euro back towards $1.0225, Turner says. Wednesday's U.S. inflation report is "another negative event risk" for the exchange rate. U.S.-eurozone interest rate differentials widened after Friday's strong U.S. jobs data and should continue to move against the euro. If the euro survives the tariff risk and U.S. inflation data, however, it could rise as the Munich security conference from Friday might unveil more details on the U.S.-proposed Ukraine ceasefire deal. The euro rises 0.3% to $1.0326. (renae.dyer@wsj.com)

0434 ET - European steel and aluminum stocks mostly edge lower in early trading amid expectations that the US will place 25% tariffs on steel and aluminum imports. Among the biggest fallers are Austria's Voestalpine, with shares down 1.5%, and steelmaker ArcelorMittal, which trades 2.6% lower. In Germany, shares in steel company Salzgitter and Thyssenkrupp fall. Luxembourg-based stainless steelmaker Aperam trades 1.8% lower and shares in Finland-based Outokumpu fall slightly, too. Among Europe's aluminum producers, Norsk Hydro shares are 1.1% lower. (pierre.bertrand@wsj.com)

0421 ET - Base metal prices are mixed, with LME three-month copper down 0.4% at $9,403.50 a metric ton and LME three-month aluminum up 0.4% at $2,639.50 a ton. President Trump plans a blanket 25% tariff on all U.S. steel and aluminum imports, with another announcement about reciprocal tariffs for all trading partners expected on Tuesday or Wednesday. The U.S. imports around 70% of its aluminum supply, with 60% of this tariff-free from Canada, MUFG analysts say in a note. Stripping out transportation and other factors, a 25% tariff would increase the U.S. Midwest premium on aluminum to around 40-45 cents a pound, from around 30 cents a pound, MUFG says. (joseph.hoppe@wsj.com)

0417 ET - Oil prices edge higher in early trade as the market digests U.S. President Trump's latest tariff threats. Brent crude and WTI are both up 0.7% to $75.18 and $71.50 a barrel, respectively, following a series of weekly losses. Trump plans to impose a 25% tariff on steel and aluminum imports on Monday and make an announcement about reciprocal tariffs for all trading partners on Tuesday or Wednesday. Meanwhile, China's counter tariffs on a range of American products are due to take effect on Monday. "Markets are weighing whether these moves are bargaining tactics or a structural shift in trade policy," Saxo analysts say in a note. Oil futures closed lower last week amid concerns that trade tariffs could hurt global economic growth and damp demand for crude. (giulia.petroni@wsj.com)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250210006228:0/)
