---
title: "The Investor Betting on People In Their 50s and 60s — Because Older Is Better — WSJ"
date: "2025-02-08 10:00:00"
summary: "By Ben CohenBridget Johns has always been entrepreneurial. She had just never actually been an entrepreneur.She grew up on a farm in Pennsylvania and ran a corn stand in her driveway. Instead of getting an allowance, she got piglets that she raised and sold at the county fair. After college..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Ben Cohen

Bridget Johns has always been entrepreneurial. She had just never actually been an entrepreneur.

She grew up on a farm in Pennsylvania and ran a corn stand in her driveway. Instead of getting an allowance, she got piglets that she raised and sold at the county fair. After college and business school, she held a series of jobs at luxury retailers in offshoot divisions that felt to her more like startups. Then she worked as an executive at an actual startup.

But she had always dreamed of building a company of her own. A few years ago, she decided that if she didn't take the risk then, she never would. So she did.

Johns became a first-time founder — at the age of 51.

A suburban mom with decades of experience in her industry might not be the first person who comes to mind when you picture a venture-backed entrepreneur building an AI-powered company.

As it turns out, that's exactly why Katerina Stroponiati chose to invest in her.

Stroponiati is a venture capitalist with a contrarian theory of entrepreneurial success: She believes that older founders can make for better founders.

In fact, she recently launched a small fund to back founders of early-stage tech companies with qualities that every investor looks for — and one that no other investor looks for.

They have to be a certain age: at least 50 years old.

That's because older founders have lots of advantages that tend to go overlooked by investors who are obsessed with discovering young talent.

They have connections. They have credibility. They have industry experience, domain expertise and the kind of relationships that can take years to cultivate. They've seen it all, so they can spot opportunities that others miss. They know the rules of their business — and how to break them. They also know which problems need to be solved because they have encountered those problems too many times themselves.

Those are the virtues that Stroponiati had in mind when she came up with the idea for her Brilliant Minds project.

Her thesis was that older founders are undervalued because of their age — and their wisdom will be increasingly valuable.

After all, if artificial intelligence outsmarts humans, there will be a premium on the intangibles that can't be automated and won't be commoditized.

"The new skills are going to be clarity, deep knowledge and how we communicate with machines and our team members," says Stroponiati, who calls herself 41 years young. "As we get older, we get better at these skills."

We're also getting better at getting older. These days, we have access to all kinds of longevity interventions that promise to make 50 the new 40.

Only a teenager could think of 50 as old. But it's old to begin again. And it's definitely older than Silicon Valley's idea of a brilliant mind.

There are perfectly logical reasons that venture capitalists glorify youth. One is that identifying talent early has paid off spectacularly for them. America's most valuable companies were all founded by visionary entrepreneurs when they were 30 or younger — and sometimes much younger.

In tech, the ideal entrepreneur really might be a precocious engineer with an unlimited reserve of energy and insatiable appetite for risk — not just someone who gets into Stanford, but someone willing to drop out of Stanford.

But younger is not always better. In other fields, you don't just need a college degree to build a company. You might need a Ph.D., too. And it's hard to know how to disrupt any industry if you've never worked in that industry.

All of which explains why the image that pops into your brain when you picture the archetypal startup founder is wrong.

The person you're imagining is almost certainly too young.

When a team led by an MIT management professor studied millions of American companies that were started between 2007 and 2014, they discovered that the average age of their founders was not in the 20s or 30s. It was almost 42.

Their research showed that age was a crucial predictor of success — just not in the way that anybody would guess.

"The highest success rates in entrepreneurship," the authors wrote in their 2020 paper, "come from founders in middle age and beyond."

In other words, founders like Morris Chang, who started Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing when he was in his 50s.

I wrote about Chang and the surprising power of middle-aged entrepreneurship last year — and that's when I heard from Stroponiati.

An entrepreneur herself, she moved to the U.S. from Greece in 2012 to start a tech company. When she began investing, she noticed that it was unusual for her to get pitches from older founders, but the ones she funded were unusually successful. And she came to believe that venture capital's indifference to older founders was her chance to be different. She decided that her own fund would focus exclusively on entrepreneurs who were 60 and older.

I told her to email again when she made her first investment.

Not long ago, she emailed again. In response to popular demand, she had lowered the age minimum — to 50. By then, Stroponiati said she had looked into hundreds of potential deals, including 39% with middle-aged founders who had never been founders before.

And she had just made her first investment — in a company led by Bridget Johns.

Before she was an entrepreneur, Johns worked at Tiffany & Co., Lancôme and RetailNext, which collects data and analytics from brick-and-mortar stores. When she left in 2021, she was the startup's chief marketing officer and head of growth strategy. She was more prepared than people half her age to launch a business. She was also more hesitant.

"I wasn't a 20-year-old startup founder," she said. "I was walking away from a nice paycheck and a pretty stable existence."

But with a supportive nudge from her husband, she took the leap into entrepreneurship. Her idea was an e-commerce site that uses AI to improve online gift-giving. Johns called the company To&From.

She knew from her time working with retailers that people struggle to pick out that perfect gift for their family, friends and corporate clients. Johns thought her personal love of gift-giving and her range of professional experiences made her uniquely qualified to help.

"The idea comes from having domain expertise, which I wouldn't have had when I was 25," said Johns, who is now 55. "At 25, I had lots of other ideas for companies — but nothing that was so specific or deep within a niche."

She was intrigued by the premise of Stroponiati's longevity fund. She just wasn't sure that she wanted any part of it.

"Do I really want to tell people my age?" Johns thought.

But she, too, came around to the idea that her age could be her edge.

And she's learning that it's never too late to start over — or to start a company. It might not even be late at all.

Write to Ben Cohen at ben.cohen@wsj.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250207011739:0/)
