---
title: "Basic Materials Roundup: Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-14 17:20:00"
summary: "The latest Market Talks covering Basic Materials. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires at 4:20 ET, 12:20 ET and 16:50 ET.0132 GMT - South32's stock appears to be gaining tailwinds, according to Citi analysts Paul McTaggart and Ephrem Ravi, who upgrade the miner's shares to buy from neutral. They expect..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The latest Market Talks covering Basic Materials. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires at 4:20 ET, 12:20 ET and 16:50 ET.

0132 GMT - South32's stock appears to be gaining tailwinds, according to Citi analysts Paul McTaggart and Ephrem Ravi, who upgrade the miner's shares to buy from neutral. They expect improved cash generation in 2H FY 2025, with a working capital unwind and lower unit operating costs on higher production. South32 is also likely to expand buyback activity and, by FY results, update investors on a possible sale of its Cerro Matoso nickel operation. "Investors would likely soon shift their focus to FY27 with yet higher production and our FY27 [copper] price of US$4.76/pound for EV/Ebitda of 3.1x," the analysts say. Citi's target goes to A$4.00 from A$3.90. South32 is up 1.1% at A$3.61/share. (rhiannon.hoyle@wsj.com; @RhiannonHoyle)

1829 GMT - Wood products company West Fraser Timber wants to be smart about how it approaches tariffs, which includes being up to date with policy. On an analyst call, executives say the company is taking a number of actions to prepare for potential tariffs, including being "policy-current," and having multiple plans to adapt to any scenario, such as tit-for-tat tariffs. However, executives say they come from a position of strength thanks to a strong balance sheet and liquidity approaching C$1.7 billion that "provides a shock absorber for potential economic issues that may unfold in the face of looming tariffs and trade wars, while still allowing us to pursue cost improvement objectives and the return of surplus capital," they say. (adriano.marchese@wsj.com)

0930 GMT - DSM-Firmenich could launch another share buyback program in 2026, analysts at Equita write. This follows the nutrition, health and bioscience company announcing a surprise 1 billion euro buyback alongside its fourth-quarter results. The buyback launched on Thursday will be executed over the next 12 months and is valued at 3.7% of its market capitalization, they write. The buyback follows solid fourth-quarter results, which were slightly better than expected, the analysts write. Shares trade up 2.62% at 103.65 euros. (adam.whittaker@wsj.com)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250214004145:0/)
