---
title: "Global Commodities Roundup: Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-11 13:15:00"
summary: "The latest Market Talks covering Commodities. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.0504 GMT - Heightened volatility will likely keep demand for gold strong and sticky, Maybank analysts say after the haven asset broke above the $2,900/oz mark. They note reports of a shortage of bullion due to..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The latest Market Talks covering Commodities. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.

0504 GMT - Heightened volatility will likely keep demand for gold strong and sticky, Maybank analysts say after the haven asset broke above the $2,900/oz mark. They note reports of a shortage of bullion due to rush in gold shipments in anticipation of tariffs. Concerns that the precious metal will become more expensive due to trade restrictions has spurred frenzied shipments to American buyers, they say. And despite the tentative deal that allowed for a delay in U.S. tariffs on Mexico and Canada, the dollar's pullback has likely given gold a boost, they say. They stay bullish on the previous metal, seeing the next resistance at $3,110/oz. Spot gold is last at $2,915/oz after earlier touching fresh highs around $2,940/oz levels. (fabiana.negrinochoa@wsj.com)

0336 GMT - President Trump's latest tariffs on steel and aluminum imports to the U.S. will likely have a small direct impact on the global economy since the metals account for a tiny share of world trade, according to Capital Economics. Canada's economy is relatively exposed, and U.S. steel prices will likely rise, economists led by Jennifer McKeown say in a commentary. The impact on China's economy will be negligible, as the U.S. already has high tariffs on Chinese steel and aluminum, they say. Given the limited trade, the incremental impact of additional tariffs should be small, the economists add. The bigger picture is that, with broader reciprocal levies also on the table, tariffs are still set to drive U.S. inflation higher and weigh on global growth this year, Capital Economics says. (tracy.qu@wsj.com)

0255 GMT - Iron ore gains in Asian trading. The steelmaking ingredient may find some support thanks to strong near-term demand and supply dynamics, Nanhua Futures analysts say in commentary. Demand is likely to improve as Chinese steel factories resume production after the Lunar New Year holiday, they add. Investors will closely watch end-user demand for steel while digesting Trump's 25% tariffs on aluminum and steel imports into the U.S. The most-traded iron-ore contract on the Dalian Commodity Exchange is up 0.9% at CNY819.0/ton. (tracy.qu@wsj.com)

0132 GMT - Aluminum futures edge lower in the morning Asian session as traders digest President Trump's announcement on Monday of global 25% tariffs on imports of aluminum and steel to the U.S. Any tariffs are expected to result in higher prices for U.S. manufacturers, ANZ Research's commodity strategists say in a note. "This would most likely be in form of higher U.S. Midwest premiums rather than a sustained uplift in the LME price" of aluminum futures, although this can't be ruled out, the strategists add. The LME three-month aluminum futures contract is 0.2% lower at $2,652.00 a metric ton.(ronnie.harui@wsj.com)

0102 GMT - BlueScope Steel is outperforming Australia's benchmark ASX 200 index after Prime Minister Anthony Albanese said the U.S. is considering exempting the country from tariffs on steel and aluminum. Albanese made the remarks following a call with President Trump. Albanese said Australia has a significant trade surplus with the U.S. dating back to the Truman administration and highlighted that BlueScope, which owns the North Star mill in Ohio, is the U.S.'s fifth-largest steel maker. The U.S. isn't a big destination for steel manufactured in Australia, which is mainly sold at home. BlueScope is up 1.7% today, outpacing a 0.2% rise by the ASX 200. (david.winning@wsj.com; @dwinningWSJ)

2359 GMT - Ansell's first-half result may give investors the mistaken impression that it is a growth stock, Morgans analyst Derek Jellinek says. He acknowledges that the protective garment manufacturer's performance was stronger than he had anticipated, but tells clients in a note that it was largely driven by acquisition gains, cost reductions, and one-off items. Customers have now finished restocking after running down inventory built up during the Covid-19 pandemic, he says. This spells an end to what he calls "easy gains" by Ansell's healthcare unit. With tariffs now a factor and potential of sales leakage from a change in processes, Jellinek is cautious. Morgans raises its target price by 23% to A$33.38 but keeps a hold rating on the stock, which is down 2.75% at A$36.73. (stuart.condie@wsj.com)

2339 GMT - Ansell's bull at Macquarie continues to see value in the stock despite the share-price surge that met the protective-garment maker's stronger-than-expected first-half earnings. An analyst note from the investment bank tells clients that the Australia-listed company's upgraded full-year guidance implies 4% in annual organic Ebit growth. The bank's analyst is slightly more optimistic on this metric, and forecasts 5% organic Ebit growth. The stock jumped 8.1% on release of the first-half result, but Macquarie maintains its outperform rating. Its target price rises 26% to A$40.30. Shares are down 2.6% at A$36.79. (stuart.condie@wsj.com)

2338 GMT - Gold is higher in the early Asian session, aided by prospects of demand for the precious metal as a hedge against inflation. U.S. President Trump on Monday announced global 25% tariffs on imports of steel and aluminum to the U.S. Key commodities including gold have absorbed the latest round of inflation-inducing measures of the Trump administration, says Matt Simpson, market analyst at FOREX.com and City Index. Gold's daily chart shows a strong bullish trend which appears averse to any meaningful pullback greater than a day, Simpson adds. Spot gold is 0.3% higher at $2,916.41/oz. (ronnie.harui@wsj.com)

2328 GMT - Mining company South32's interim dividend could disappoint investors, reckons Macquarie. While South32 is likely to maintain its payout ratio at 40% of underlying earnings, the issue is that 1H profits will be thinner than the market expects, Macquarie says. It tips South32 to declare an interim dividend of 2.3 U.S. cents per share, representing a 27% miss to consensus forecasts. "However, given the materiality of the expected FY 2025 yield (1% annualized), we expect the focus at the results to be on free cash flow," Macquarie says. South32 is due to report its 1H result on Thursday. (david.winning@wsj.com; @dwinningWSJ)

2202 GMT - Ansell's second-half earnings growth looks likely to be driven by its acquisition from Kimberly-Clark and cost benefits, Citi analyst Mathieu Chevrier writes in a note. He tells clients that about two thirds of the protective-garment manufacturer's fiscal first-half Ebit growth stemmed from the assets acquired from Kimberly-Clark on July 1. The assets are performing better than expected and their integration is ahead of schedule, which Chevrier observes will lead to some cost synergy in the June half. Citi lifts its target price 17% to A$38.00 and keeps a neutral rating on the stock, which is at A$37.77 ahead of the open. (stuart.condie@wsj.com)

2049 GMT - A 25% U.S. tariff on Canadian aluminum "will be so destructive for industrial aluminum value chain in the U.S. that it cannot last," says Jean Simard, CEO of the Aluminium Association of Canada. Simard tells WSJ he's hoping the Trump administration will carve out Canadian-made aluminum from the president's decision to impose a 25% tariff on imported steel and aluminum. Simard says small- and mid-sized U.S. manufacturers will be stuck paying vastly more for the metal which is used to build cars, aerospace products, and consumer appliances. "At some point in time, some products will be priced out of the market and replaced by foreign imports," Simard predicts. Canada supplies about 60% of the aluminum the U.S. imports. (paul.vieira@wsj.com; @paulvieira)

1940 GMT - Livestock futures on the CME closed trading mixed, with most-active live cattle finishing up 0.7% to $1.987 a pound, and lean hogs closing down 0.6% to 91.85 cents a pound. For hogs, early strength was quickly shrugged off amid higher volatility in the world trade stage, but the slaughter shortfall seen in U.S. pork looks to provide support for pork cutouts and CME futures in sessions ahead. "The shortfall in slaughter has impacted spot availability, with some items, such as bellies, being particularly sensitive," says Steiner Consulting Group in a note. Through midday, the USDA reported pork cutouts higher across the board. (kirk.maltais@wsj.com)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250211000033:0/)
