---
title: "American Express Stock Slips as CFO Says Wall Street Is Too Upbeat — Barrons.com"
date: "2025-02-11 03:10:00"
summary: "By Mackenzie TatananniAmerican Express stock tumbled on Monday after the company's chief financial officer said first-quarter revenue growth would be slower than in the fourth quarter.\"I think Q1's expectations are too high when we analyze the sequentials between Q4 and Q1,\" CFO Christophe Le Caillec said during an appearance at..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Mackenzie Tatananni

American Express stock tumbled on Monday after the company's chief financial officer said first-quarter revenue growth would be slower than in the fourth quarter.

"I think Q1's expectations are too high when we analyze the sequentials between Q4 and Q1," CFO Christophe Le Caillec said during an appearance at the UBS Financial Services Conference. Shares fell 2.8% to $308.05 following his remarks.

"The expectation from investors and analysts is that this would be pretty flat, and it cannot be flat," Le Caillec continued. He pointed out that 2024 was a leap year, with the lost day translating to roughly one percentage point of growth.

Le Caillec also described foreign exchange as a drag on the company. "The strength of the U.S. dollar is a headwind to our growth, and the dollar is a bit stronger now than it was in late December," the CFO said.

"When you add up those two items sequentially, the revenue growth should be lower than what we had in Q4 and an EPS should adjust as well accordingly."

Le Caillec said management remains "comfortable and very confident" in regard to the company's 2025 financial guidance, which was issued Jan. 24.

American Express called for full-year revenue growth between 8% and 10% and earnings in the range of $15 to $15.50 a share. The consensus call among analyst surveyed by FactSet is for $15.24.

Write to Mackenzie Tatananni at mackenzie.tatananni@barrons.com

This content was created by Barron's, which is operated by Dow Jones & Co. Barron's is published independently from Dow Jones Newswires and The Wall Street Journal.

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250210008394:0/)
