---
title: "UK Market Talk Roundup: Brokers Comments"
date: "2025-02-11 18:48:00"
summary: "Broker comments in the UK today. Compiled by Dow Jones Newswires Markets Desk, markets.eu@dowjones.com1048 GMT - BP recognizes that it has work to do to improve investor confidence, Quilter Cheviot's Maurizio Carulli writes. The company is reviewing its capital expenditure and share buyback policy. The British oil and gas company's..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Broker comments in the UK today. Compiled by Dow Jones Newswires Markets Desk, markets.eu@dowjones.com

1048 GMT - BP recognizes that it has work to do to improve investor confidence, Quilter Cheviot's Maurizio Carulli writes. The company is reviewing its capital expenditure and share buyback policy. The British oil and gas company's poor share price performance in 2024 has dragged on shareholder confidence, the analyst adds. As returns come into focus, BP's guidance for divestments worth $3 billion in 2025 can be viewed as a positive, he adds. Shares trade up 0.2% to 466 pence. (adam.whittaker@wsj.com)

1005 GMT - BP's outlook for early this year is uninspiring, Interactive Investor's Head of Markets Richard Hunter writes. BP expects to report lower upstream production and volumes in the first quarter of 2025. Meanwhile, investors are confused about BP's strategy and wait to see whether its change in direction will result in reduced investment in renewable energy assets, which have proved to be unprofitable, he adds. Shares trade up 0.3% at 466.50 pence. (adam.whittaker@wsj.com)

0956 GMT - Bellway enters the second half with a strong orderbook propping up end-of-year volume expectations of at least 8,500 homes, Goodbody analyst Shane Carberry says in a note. The company's first-half performance was strong despite challenging market conditions. Although management is encouraged by the seasonal pick-up in customer enquiries and reservation rates in the early weeks of the spring season, it remains mindful of mortgage affordability, Carberry says. Goodbody sees underlying operating profit of 289 million pounds being in line with consensus of 291 million pounds, he says. "Numbers now look well underpinned given the strong volume delivery in 1H and the strength of the orderbook... into 2H," Carberry says. Shares are down 5.2% at 2,430 pence. (anthony.orunagoriainoff@dowjones.com)

0937 GMT - BP's quarterly profit fell to a four-year low as seasonal weakness, refining margins and maintenance worked dragged on its results, Derren Nathan, head of equity research at Hargreaves Lansdown, writes. Much of this was well trailed in BP's performance update so investors shouldn't be too surprised, he adds. As the British energy giant updates on its strategy later this month, activist investor Elliott Investment Management will be examining the returns profile on BP's assets, he adds. BP's shares trade up 0.3% at 46.64 pounds and are up nearly 20% over the year to date. (adam.whittaker@wsj.com)

0933 GMT - Bellway is experiencing a pickup in the spring selling season after a subdued autumn, with the order book 30% ahead of a year ago, Peel Hunt analysts Sam Cullen and Clyde Lewis say in a note. The U.K. housebuilder is experiencing an encouraging improvement in demand levels despite consumers remaining sensitive to mortgage rates, the analysts say. The company expects to deliver at least 8,500 homes this year, with an average selling price of 310,000 pounds and underlying margins of 11%. This implies an underlying operating profit of around 290 million pounds which is 2% to 3% above Peel Hunt's forecasts. "Sustained improvements in affordability should help to drive demand forward, while outlets are beginning to return to net growth," the analysts say. Shares are down 5.5% at 2,422 pence. (anthony.orunagoriainoff@dowjones.com)

0825 GMT - Bellway is on track to deliver on full-year guidance at the halfway mark but this robust performance is at odds with its subdued share price performance, RBC Capital Markets analyst Anthony Codling says in a note. The underlying housing market appears to be stronger than what investors think it is, Codling says. Despite a rise in mortgage rates, customer demand and pricing remained firm. The forward order book's value of 1.31 billion pounds is 30% above 2024's levels, and implies a forward order book average sale price that is 9% higher year-on-year, he says. Shares are down 6.3% at 2,402 pence and are down 3.6% in the year to date. (anthony.orunagoriainoff@dowjones.com)

0823 GMT - U.K. housebuilder Bellway appears to be in the early stages of a recovery, Quilter Cheviot analyst Oli Creasey says in a note. Although its house prices rose around 0.5%, this is a little behind some peers including Persimmon which reported 5% growth, Creasey says. Bellway expects operating margins to improve modestly to 11% from 10%. Though positive, it represents the scale of the challenge the company and other housebuilders face, Creasey says. Its operating margin in 2022 was around 18% so there is still a long way to go before it, or the industry, fully recovers, he says. "The mortgage market and wider economic conditions continue to have an impact on customer demand and are likely to be a headwind for Bellway for some time yet," he says. (anthony.orunagoriainoff@dowjones.com)

0808 GMT - Dunelm Group reported modest growth in both revenue and pretax profit in the first half, although that was driven by volumes and market-share gains, Barclays analysts Richard Taylor and Sharanya Gajapathy say in a note. While the soft-furnishing retailer's revenue rise was modest, the volume increase and stable prices are positive news and considered sustainable given that the sector is increasing prices to defend profits, they say. Added to that, Dunelm declared a pleasing special dividend of 35 pence, in line with prior year, they say. Despite the company noting a 9 million pounds inflationary headwind, it continued to invest on manufacturing capabilities, they add. (michael.susin@wsj.com)

0804 GMT - M.J. Gleeson had a firm first half of its financial year and a robust start to the second half, RBC Europe analysts Anthony Codling and Oliver Dyson said. The London-listed low-cost housebuilder and land promoter reiterated its 2025 guidance on Tuesday and is on track to deliver on its expectations over the medium term, the analysts say. "The pace is good and Gleeson has plenty of spring in its step," they write. (cristina.gallardo@wsj.com)

Contact us in London. +44-20-7842-9288   
Markettalk.eu@dowjones.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250211002589:0/)
