---
title: "Addus HomeCare Announces Fourth Quarter and Year-end 2024 Earnings Release and Conference Call"
date: "2025-02-11 00:01:00"
summary: "Addus HomeCare Announces Fourth Quarter and Year-end 2024 Earnings Release and Conference CallFRISCO, Texas--(BUSINESS WIRE)--February 10, 2025--Addus HomeCare Corporation , a provider of home care services, announced today that it will release earnings for the fourth quarter and year-ended December 31, 2024, on Monday, February 24, 2025, after the market..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Addus HomeCare Announces Fourth Quarter and Year-end 2024 Earnings Release and Conference Call

FRISCO, Texas--(BUSINESS WIRE)--February 10, 2025--

Addus HomeCare Corporation , a provider of home care services, announced today that it will release earnings for the fourth quarter and year-ended December 31, 2024, on Monday, February 24, 2025, after the market close.

Addus HomeCare will host a conference call on Tuesday, February 25, 2025, at 9:00 a.m. Eastern Time. Joining the call from the Company will be Dirk Allison, Chairman and CEO, Brian Poff, Executive Vice President and CFO, and Brad Bickham, President and COO. To access the live call, dial (833) 629-0620 (international dial-in number is (412) 317-1805) and ask to join the Addus HomeCare earnings call. A telephonic replay of the conference call will be available through midnight on March 4, 2025, by dialing (877) 344-7529 (international dial-in number is (412) 317-0088) and entering pass code 3644763.

A live broadcast of Addus HomeCare's conference call will be available under the Investor Relations section of the Company's website: www.addus.com. An online replay will also be available on the Company's website for one month, beginning approximately two hours following the conclusion of the live broadcast.

About Addus HomeCare

Addus HomeCare is a provider of home care services that primarily include personal care services that assist with activities of daily living, as well as hospice and home health services. Addus HomeCare's consumers are primarily persons who, without these services, are at risk of hospitalization or institutionalization, such as the elderly, chronically ill and disabled. Addus HomeCare's payor clients include federal, state and local governmental agencies, managed care organizations, commercial insurers and private individuals. Addus HomeCare currently provides home care services to approximately 61,500 consumers through 257 locations across 23 states. For more information, please visit www.addus.com.

View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20250210259067/en/

CONTACT: Brian W. Poff

Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer

Addus HomeCare Corporation

(469) 535-8200

investorrelations@addus.com

Dru Anderson

FINN Partners

(615) 324-7346

dru.anderson@finnpartners.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250210007193:0/)
