---
title: "Global Commodities Roundup: Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-13 01:15:00"
summary: "The latest Market Talks covering Commodities. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.1214 ET - Traders are again focusing on the weather in South America following yesterday's WASDE report showing the outlook for world corn stocks falling by roughly 3 million metric tons. \"The rains and delays in..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The latest Market Talks covering Commodities. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.

1214 ET - Traders are again focusing on the weather in South America following yesterday's WASDE report showing the outlook for world corn stocks falling by roughly 3 million metric tons. "The rains and delays in South America have a track record of pressuring yields which is keeping the bulls on the long side of the market fed," said Sterling Smith of StoneX in a note. Most-active corn futures are up 0.9% and wheat is climbing 0.4%, while soybeans sink 1.6%. (kirk.maltais@wsj.com)

1206 ET - Base metal prices are mixed, with LME three-month copper up 1.1% at $9,459 a metric ton and LME three-month aluminum down 0.6% at $2,623.50 a ton. President Trump's planned 25% tariffs on all steel and aluminum products have already widened the Midwest premium U.S. buyers have to pay over LME prices. The latest LME commitment of traders report shows investors increased their net bullish position in copper by 5,224 lots for a sixth consecutive week to 73,763 lots for the week ended Feb. 7--the highest net long position since the beginning of November, ING analysts say in a note. In aluminum, speculators raised net bullish bets by 2,109 lots to 119,588 lots over the last reporting week. This was the highest bullish bet since mid-November, ING adds. (joseph.hoppe@wsj.com)

1158 ET - Canada Prime Minister Justin Trudeau says he had a short encounter with Vice President JD Vance about the negative fallout from a 25% tariff on steel and aluminum from Ohio. Trudeau tells reporters he told Vance — for an AI conference in Paris that the two lawmakers attended — that about C$2.2 billion of Canadian-made steel and aluminum are used by manufacturers in Vance's home state. "He nodded and noted it," Trudeau says, noting it was a short exchange. Earlier in the day, Quebec Premier Francois Legault mused that perhaps Canada should slap an export tax on U.S.-bound aluminum should the Trump administration imposes a hefty tariff on the metal. Canadian officials play down talk of export taxes, saying they want to press U.S. officials for a carve out. (paul.vieira@wsj.com, @paulvieira)

1153 ET - Gold futures slip after U.S. economic data pointed to hotter-than-expected inflation. Futures are down 0.4% at $2,920 a troy ounce, having reached a record $2,968.50 in the prior session. Consumer prices in January rose 3% from a year earlier, more than the 2.9% that economists were expecting and lowering the chances of a Federal Reserve interest rate cut any time soon. Higher rates typically damp investor enthusiasm for non-interest bearing bullion. Potential U.S. tariffs add upside risk to inflation in upcoming quarters, but there are some encouraging signs that housing costs will slow meaningfully later in 2025 and keep the door open to cuts in the second half of the year, ING analysts say in a note. (joseph.hoppe@wsj.com)

1058 ET - Quebec Premier Francois Legault suggests that Canada might want to slap an export tax on aluminum should President Trump follow through on imposing a 25% tariff on all imported steel and aluminum. Canada is by far the biggest seller of foreign aluminum to the U.S., and the bulk of Canadian aluminum is in the province of Quebec. The U.S. "really needs us" on aluminum, says Legault, who is in Washington with other Canadian premiers to persuade lawmakers and officials about the potential fallout on tariffs on Canadian imports. An export tax on products like aluminum might get Trump's attention, he says. "We have to be careful," Legault adds, "[because] we want to have a deal with no tariffs." (paul.vieira@wsj.com; @paulvieira)

1015 ET - Oatly says its constant currency revenue will be dented by 300 basis points in 2025 after a major North American customer decided to draw back sourcing from the oat milk company. D.A. Davidson analyst Brian Holland believes that customer was Starbucks, since the food company SunOpta said in October it expanded oat milk distribution to 6,700 of the coffee chain sites, Holland says. SunOpta has reaffirmed double digit revenue growth in 2025, while Oatly expects 2% to 4%. While it "isn't great optics," for Oatly, Holland says Starbucks was a margin dilutive customer whose partnership never had its intended effect for Oatly. Oatly slides 11% in early trading. (katherine.hamilton@wsj.com)

0951 ET - CBOT grains are mixed, with no confirmation of higher corn demand and no changes to the size of the U.S. crops in Tuesday's WASDE report. Counteracting the mediocre data is the USDA's announcement of new flash sales of corn and soybeans to unknown destinations, with 130,320 metric tons of corn and 120,000 tons of soybeans sold, both for delivery in 2024/25. "Unknown destinations" is regarded by agricultural traders as a moniker for China, although that isn't necessarily the case. Corn and wheat turn higher in early trading, with corn up 0.6% and wheat rising 0.3%. Soybeans are down 0.5%. (kirk.maltais@wsj.com)

0943 ET - Coffee prices are all-time highs, but the buying strategy at Tim Hortons should temper the brunt of the increase on its margins. On an analyst call, executives say that in the Tim Hortons commodity basket, coffee is only about 15% of the total, which they consider relatively small. Still, the executives say they buy coffee six-to-18 months in advance as part of their forward buying strategy "which allows us to smooth out volatility as we pass those costs on to franchisees." Because of this forward visibility, "we still feel good that 2025 supply chain margin will be at around 19%, compared with 19.5% in 2024." (adriano.marchese@wsj.com)

0932 ET - Gold futures drop after the 12-month CPI accelerates to 3% from 2.9%, with the core moving to 3.3% from 3.2%. Gold was under pressure after Fed Chair Powell told Congress Tuesday that the Fed was in no hurry to cut rates and saw the U.S. economy "broadly in balance." Gold fell more than 1% following the January CPI, but has since pared losses, with the most-active contract now down only 0.5%. (kirk.maltais@wsj.com)

0918 ET - U.S. natural gas futures are steady to higher with frigid temperatures for much of the U.S. expected to continue next week, keeping heating demand at high levels. "The market is now forced to price in a storage deficit that could persist through the shoulder period given this unexpected cold spell that will be moving through the nation's mid-section through the rest of this week and much of next week," Ritterbusch says in a note. A below-average storage withdrawal expected for last week is likely to be followed by a string of above-average inventory draws, "rendering tomorrow's EIA storage report almost meaningless," the firm adds. The Nymex front month is up 1% at $3.553/mmBtu. (anthony.harrup@wsj.com)

0855 ET - Oil futures are down after an industry group reports a large build in U.S. crude inventories, while OPEC holds its 2025 oil demand growth estimate at 1.45 million barrels a day. The API said crude stocks increased by 9 million barrels last week, analysts note, which follows an 8.7 million barrel build reported for the previous week by the EIA. The EIA's data for last week are due at 10:30 ET. "Crude stock builds are expected in the U.S., but the recent rate of building is more than expected," TP ICAP's Scott Shelton says in a note. "I think that we may see a slowing in the builds in February for the U.S. as exports will be stronger," he adds. WTI is down 1.2% at $72.43 a barrel, and Brent is off 1% at $76.23. (anthony.harrup@wsj.com)

0842 ET - Nestle's investors will be looking for signs of improvement in real internal growth--or sales volume growth, a key metric for the sector--at the company's earnings for 2024, Morningstar equity analyst Diana Radu says in a note. The Nescafe coffee maker is expected to have had headwinds in 2024, particularly from consumers choosing cheaper options and high input costs for key categories like coffee and cocoa, the analyst says. Despite the new board's actions to take the company in the right direction, those interventions will take time to gain traction, the analyst says. Looking ahead in 2025, Morningstar expects organic sales growth guidance to fall between the 2024 target of 2% and the midterm goal of over 4%. Shares are down nearly 20% on a 52-week basis.(michael.susin@wsj.com)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250212010717:0/)
