---
title: "Dogecoin Price To $1, XRP To $6, And Solana To $1,000? Pundit Says You’re Not Bullish Enough"
date: "2025-02-09 02:30:59"
summary: "Crypto pundit Investments CEO has provided a bullish case for the Dogecoin price, XRP, and Solana amid this market downtrend. He revealed his price targets for these cryptos, with each target marking a new all-time high (ATH) for them. Dogecoin Price To Hit $1, XRP To $6 And Solana To..."
categories:
  - "NewsBTC"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "NewsBTC"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Crypto pundit Investments CEO has provided a bullish case for the Dogecoin price, XRP, and Solana amid this market downtrend. He revealed his price targets for these cryptos, with each target marking a new all-time high (ATH) for them.

**Dogecoin Price To Hit $1, XRP To $6 And Solana To $1,000**

In an X post, Investments CEO predicted that the Dogecoin price will hit $1, while XRP and Solana will reach $6 and $1,000, respectively. These targets would mark a new ATH for the Dogecoin price, XRP, and Solana, whose current highs are $0.74, $3.3, and $294, respectively. Meanwhile, the analyst also predicted that the Bitcoin price would hit $150,000, which would also be a new all-time high for the flagship crypto.

Based on these price targets, the crypto pundit asserted that market participants aren’t bullish enough. The Dogecoin price, XRP, and Solana reaching these targets undoubtedly provide a bullish outlook for the crypto market, which is currently witnessing a significant crash due to economic uncertainty.

The Dogecoin price has been one of the major caps that has taken the most hit, with a decline of over 25% in the last seven days. Meanwhile, XRP and Solana have declined over 22% and 17% respectively.

It is worth mentioning that besides this crypto pundit, some other crypto analysts have also predicted that the Dogecoin price could soon reach the much-anticipated psychological $1 level. One of them is Master Kenobi, who highlighted similarities between the current DOGE price action and that of 2017.

Based on the similarities, the crypto analyst predicted that the Dogecoin price could witness a 6x increase from its current level and rally to as high as $1.25 soon enough. He added that DOGE could peak sometime in mid-April or May.

Crypto analysts have also made bullish cases for XRP and Solana. Crypto analyst Dark Defender predicted that the XRP price could rally to $8 soon enough. The analyst is also confident that XRP can reach $18 in this market cycle.

Meanwhile, crypto analyst Ali Martinez predicted that Solana could reach $350, while Van Eck stated that SOL could reach $500 by year-end.

**What Next For These Coins Amid Downtrend**

In the meantime, crypto analysts have provided insights into what needs to happen for the Dogecoin price, XRP, and Solana to maintain their bullish outlook. In an X post, crypto analyst Kevin Capital stated that in the short term, DOGE needs to get back above $0.28 to see more upside. If that doesn’t happen, he remarked that the foremost meme coin is in danger of retesting the lows and maybe dropping to as low as $0.19.

For XRP, crypto analyst Egrag Crypto stated that the crypto needs to close above the 21 EMA at $2.67. He added that a close above $2.81 is essential for bullish momentum. Crypto analyst CasiTrades also suggested that XRP needs to reclaim $2.90 as a rejection at this level could lead to drop to $1.88 or $1.53.

For Solana, Ali Martinez stated that SOL needs to hold above the support at $196 to maintain the bullish projection of $350 for the crypto.

[NewsBTC](https://www.tradingview.com/news/newsbtc:b495d7607094b:0-dogecoin-price-to-1-xrp-to-6-and-solana-to-1-000-pundit-says-you-re-not-bullish-enough/)
