---
title: "Bitcoin Dominance 2021 Vs. 2025: Why Striking Similarities May Show If An Altcoin Season Is Possible"
date: "2025-02-08 10:00:35"
summary: "As expectations of an altcoin season mount, a new technical analysis of the Bitcoin Dominance (BTC.D) draws striking parallels between the 2021 and 2025 market cycles, aiming to determine whether altcoins are on the brink of another bull run. Historically, Bitcoin Dominance has been a key indicator in predicting the..."
categories:
  - "NewsBTC"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "NewsBTC"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

As expectations of an altcoin season mount, a new technical analysis of the Bitcoin Dominance (BTC.D) draws striking parallels between the 2021 and 2025 market cycles, aiming to determine whether altcoins are on the brink of another bull run. Historically, Bitcoin Dominance has been a key indicator in predicting the likelihood of an altcoin, as a decline in BTC.D often signals a shift in investors’ focus on alternative cryptocurrencies.

**Historical Bitcoin Dominance Signal Possible Altcoin Season**

Crypto analyst Luca on X (formerly Twitter) is questioning whether history is repeating itself as similar past market trends emerge in this current cycle. The analyst shared two parallel charts, tracking the Bitcoin Dominance market capitalization and the start of the altcoin season.

The chart compared the BTC.D market cap in the 2021 and 2025 cycles, revealing an eerily similar pattern that unfolded during the bull market in 2021. Back then, many investors had anticipated the start of the altcoin season immediately after BTC.D hit a high-timeframe resistance. However, to the surprise of the broader market, Bitcoin’s dominance deviated above the resistance, leading to a mass sell-off in altcoins.

Fast-forward to 2025, Luca believes this narrative is playing out again. As BTC.D dropped below the 61% resistance zone, the market hoped for a rotation into altcoins. Instead, BTC.D surged even higher, deviating again and triggering a mass capitulation of altcoins.

Luca’s Bitcoin Dominance chart shows the resistance zone where BTC.D struggled to break through in 2021 and 2025. In both cycles, BTC.D deviated from this resistance level. However, after the shift in 2021, Bitcoin dominance fell sharply to the green zone between 58% and 60%. This zone corresponded with a major rally that sparked the start of the altcoin season.

In the 2025 BTC.D chart, Luca highlighted the next green zone as around 54.56%. If historical trends repeat, BTC.D may drop to this low level and potentially trigger a similar rally to kickstart this cycle’s anticipated altcoin season.

At the moment, all eyes are on BTC.D as the market awaits its next move, which could define the fate of altcoins in this bull market. The analyst notes that the key question remains: will history repeat itself, or will the 2025 cycle run a new course?

**Analyst Says 2025 Altcoin Season Is Out Of Reach**

In another X post, a crypto analyst, Brucer, argues that the altcoin season may not occur during this cycle. He outlines three primary reasons for his foreboding analysis, underscoring that during past cycles, the altcoin season was driven by major events like the 2017 ICO boom. However, each cycle varies in intensity and may not repeat the same conditions that led to past altcoin seasons.

Secondly, Brucer noted that altcoins are currently struggling to regain previous highs while Bitcoin’s dominance continues to rise, now sitting above a 60% market cap. Lastly, the analyst suggested that an altcoin season 2025 is unlikely unless significant macroeconomic changes occur.

[NewsBTC](https://www.tradingview.com/news/newsbtc:1fd942521094b:0-bitcoin-dominance-2021-vs-2025-why-striking-similarities-may-show-if-an-altcoin-season-is-possible/)
