---
title: "Bulgarian stocks decline, SOFIX falls on Fibank, BSE losses"
date: "2025-02-12 00:09:07"
summary: "SOFIA (Bulgaria), February 11 (SeeNews) - All five indices of the Bulgarian Stock Exchange (BSE) ended in the red on Tuesday, with the blue-chip SOFIX shrinking 0.13% to 894.95 points due to losses at First Investment Bank, or Fibank, [BUL:FIB] and the operator of the Sofia bourse [BUL:BSE], bourse data..."
categories:
  - "Reuters"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Reuters"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

SOFIA (Bulgaria), February 11 (SeeNews) - All five indices of the Bulgarian Stock Exchange (BSE) ended in the red on Tuesday, with the blue-chip SOFIX shrinking 0.13% to 894.95 points due to losses at First Investment Bank, or Fibank, [BUL:FIB] and the operator of the Sofia bourse [BUL:BSE], bourse data showed.

Fibank declined by 3.50% to 3.86 levs, whereas the bourse operator shed 1.97% to 7.45 levs. The two companies further drove down the BGTR30, in which companies with a free float of at least 10% have equal weight, by 0.07% to 860.25 points.

The BGBX40 index, which tracks the 40 most traded shares on the Sofia bourse, tumbled 0.22% to 171.53 points. It was mostly constrained by an 8.52% drop in machine engineering company Hydraulic Elements and Systems [BUL:HES] to 4.94 levs and a 4.62% slip in fertiliser producer Neochim [BUL:NEOH] to 24.80 levs.

The BGREIT, which tracks seven real estate investment trusts, dipped 0.55% to 217.23 points as a result of a 3.16% fall in Sopharma Buildings REIT [BUL:SFB] to 15.30 levs.

The biggest loss of the day, at 3.02% to 94.37 points, was posted by the BEAMX index, which tracks the ten most highly capitalised growth companies. It was dragged down by beekeeping IoT solutions developer Bee Smart Technologies [BUL:BEE], which plummeted 48.48% to 5.10 levs.

Total turnover on the main market of the BSE slid to nearly 4.55 million levs ($2.4 million/2.3 million euro) on Tuesday from 5.23 million levs the day prior.

The largest turnover of the day, or some 1.41 million levs, was generated by cosmetics producer Lavena [BUL:LAV] after 496,522 shares changed hands. The stock closed 13.60% higher at 2.84 levs.

(1 euro = 1.95583 levs)

[Reuters](https://www.tradingview.com/news/reuters.com,2025-02-11:newsml_SEEkpPz0a:0-bulgarian-stocks-decline-sofix-falls-on-fibank-bse-losses/)
