---
title: "VENTURA OFFSHORE MIDCO LTD.: Settlement with UMAS and acquisition of the Catarina 17.5% profit split"
date: "2025-02-11 04:30:01"
summary: "February 10, 2025: Reference is made to the press release from VenturaOffshoreMidco Ltd (the \"Company\") published on 28 June 2024 regarding the acquisitionofSSV Catarina, a 2012 built semisubmersible drilling rig which had previouslybeen managed and operated by Universal Energy Resources, Inc., a wholly ownedsubsidiary of the Company. As part of..."
categories:
  - "Reuters"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Reuters"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

February 10, 2025: Reference is made to the press release from VenturaOffshoreMidco Ltd (the "Company") published on 28 June 2024 regarding the acquisitionofSSV Catarina, a 2012 built semisubmersible drilling rig which had previouslybeen managed and operated by Universal Energy Resources, Inc., a wholly ownedsubsidiary of the Company. As part of the acquisition of the Catarina, it was agreed that UMAS 1 AS assellers of the rig, should receive 17.5% of the free cashflow generated byCatarina (the "Profit Split") for five years, starting from the ENI Indonesiacontract that commenced 17 August 2024. The Company is pleased to announcethata settlement has been entered into with UMAS 1 AS whereby the Company (throughits subsidiaries) has agreed to pay a lump sum amount of USD 8 million as fulland final settlement of: - Any and all earnings under the Profit Split since the ENI contractcommencement 17 August 2024- The 17.5% Profit Split, and- All amounts outstanding in relation to the final accounts and workingcapitalof the rig in connection with its acquisition which was completed in July 2024

Catarina is currently on a well-based contract with ENI Indonesia where it iscurrently estimated that the current firm wells will keep the unit utilizedintofourth quarter of 2025. In addition to the current firm wells, ENI has optionsfor an additional five fixed-price wells, four in Indonesia and one inVietnam. For further queries, please contact:Mardonildo FilhoChief Strategy Officer+55 21 97166 1978mardonildo.filho@ventura-offshore.com

About Ventura Offshore Midco Ltd. Ventura Offshore Midco Ltd. is a subsidiary of Ventura Offshore Holding Ltd.,adeep water drilling contractor providing deep water offshore drilling servicesto the oil and gas industry. Ventura Offshore Holding Ltd. and itssubsidiaries'core activities are focused in the Brazilian offshore oil and gas market.Ventura Offshore Holding Ltd. and its subsidiaries owns and operates onedrillship, DS Carolina, and two semisubmersible drilling rigs, SSV VictoriaandSSV Catarina, and manages one drillship, Zonda. Ventura Offshore Midco Ltd.,andVentura Offshore Holding Ltd. are incorporated under the laws of Bermuda.

https://newsweb.oslobors.no/message/638188

[Reuters](https://www.tradingview.com/news/reuters.com,2025-02-10:newsml_Obi6BZcva:0-ventura-offshore-midco-ltd-settlement-with-umas-and-acquisition-of-the-catarina-17-5-profit-split/)
