---
title: "VENTURA OFFSHORE HOLDING LTD.: Settlement with UMAS and acquisition of the Catarina 17.5% profit split"
date: "2025-02-11 04:30:01"
summary: "February 10, 2025 - Reference is made to the stock exchange release fromVenturaOffshore Holding Ltd (the \"Company\") published on 27 June 2024 and 23 July2024regarding the acquisition of SSV Catarina, a 2012 built semisubmersibledrillingrig which had previously been managed and operated by Universal EnergyResources, Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of..."
categories:
  - "Reuters"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Reuters"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

February 10, 2025 - Reference is made to the stock exchange release fromVenturaOffshore Holding Ltd (the "Company") published on 27 June 2024 and 23 July2024regarding the acquisition of SSV Catarina, a 2012 built semisubmersibledrillingrig which had previously been managed and operated by Universal EnergyResources, Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company. As part the acquisition of the Catarina, it was agreed that UMAS 1 AS assellersof the rig, should receive 17.5% of the free cashflow generated by Catarina(the"Profit Split") for five years, starting from the ENI Indonesia contract thatcommenced 17 August 2024. The Company is pleased to announce that a settlementhas been entered into with UMAS 1 AS whereby the Company (through itssubsidiaries) has agreed to pay a lump sum amount of USD 8 million as full andfinal settlement of:

- Any and all earnings under the Profit Split since the ENI contractcommencement 17 August 2024- The 17.5% Profit Split, and- All amounts outstanding in relation to the final accounts and workingcapitalof the rig in connection with its acquisition which was completed in July 2024

Catarina is currently on a well-based contract with ENI Indonesia where it iscurrently estimated that the current firm wells will keep the unit utilizedintofourth quarter of 2025. In addition to the current firm wells, ENI has optionsfor an additional five fixed-price wells, four in Indonesia and one inVietnam.

For further queries, please contact:Mardonildo FilhoChief Strategy Officer+55 21 97166 1978mardonildo.filho@ventura-offshore.com

About Ventura Offshore Holding Ltd.Ventura Offshore Holding Ltd. is a deep water drilling contractor providingdeepwater offshore drilling services to the oil and gas industry. The Company'scoreactivities are focused in the Brazilian offshore oil and gas market. TheCompanyowns and operates one drillship, DS Carolina, and two semisubmersible drillingrigs, SSV Victoria and SSV Catarina, and manages one drillship, Zonda. TheCompany is incorporated under the laws of Bermuda.

https://newsweb.oslobors.no/message/638187

[Reuters](https://www.tradingview.com/news/reuters.com,2025-02-10:newsml_ObibQ8vKa:0-ventura-offshore-holding-ltd-settlement-with-umas-and-acquisition-of-the-catarina-17-5-profit-split/)
