---
title: "The Daily: Quest to find bitcoin fortune in garbage dump continues, Dave Portnoy’s memecoin antics and more"
date: "2025-02-11 02:52:27"
summary: "The following article is adapted from The Block’s newsletter, The Daily, which comes out on weekday afternoons.I hope you had a good weekend, folks. Memecoins are seemingly back on the menu, with Barstool's Dave Portnoy and even entire countries apparently getting in on the act, despite recent troubles in one..."
categories:
  - "The Block"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "The Block"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

*The following article is adapted from The Block’s newsletter, The Daily, which comes out on weekday afternoons.*

I hope you had a good weekend, folks. Memecoins are seemingly back on the menu, with Barstool's Dave Portnoy and even entire countries apparently getting in on the act, despite recent troubles in one of the most degenerate sectors of crypto.

In today's newsletter, a Brit's quest to find a lost bitcoin fortune in a garbage dump continues, a hacker pleads guilty over a fake SEC Bitcoin ETF post, Changpeng "CZ" Zhao says Binance's listing process is a "bit broken," Strategy resumes its bitcoin buying spree and more.

Meanwhile, Jason Shubnell takes a look at the growing case for memecoin ETFs.

Let's get started.

**Brit continues hunt for lost bitcoin treasure**

James Howells, a resident of Newport, South Wales, plans to buy the landfill where he believes his lost £620 million ($768 million) bitcoin fortune is still buried, despite a UK judge dismissing his case last month.

* The computer engineer believes his former partner mistakenly threw out a hard drive containing a Bitcoin wallet in 2013 and took legal action to try and access the landfill to recover the device.
* Judge Andrew John Keyser KC dismissed Howells' case against Newport Council on Jan. 9, stating there were "no reasonable grounds" for the claim, though he appealed on Jan. 27.
* However, if the current owners are willing to negotiate, Howells and his investment partners would now be interested in acquiring the landfill site outright, he told The Block, without naming the partners.
* Howells said he had discussions with several interested parties in recent months, with "a few options on the table." Failing that, Howells also doesn't rule out launching a utility token or NFT related to the efforts, saying he is "pretty confident the crypto world would have my back."
* The landfill is set to close in the 2025-2026 financial year, with the council planning to convert part of the land into a solar farm, raising questions about the site's future.
* Howells speculates his lost bitcoin could be worth over $1 billion by 2026 and previously said he was willing to take the case as far as the Supreme Court.

**SEC hacker pleads guilty over fake Bitcoin ETF post**

Eric Council Jr. pleaded guilty to conspiracy to commit aggravated identity theft and access device fraud related to the hack of the Security and Exchange Commission's social media account in January 2024, according to a filing posted in the U.S. District Court of the District of Columbia.

* Prosecutors said Council and his collaborators took control of the SEC's X account and posted a fake announcement about the approval of spot Bitcoin ETFs.
* The fake post, sent just a day before the SEC's official approval, caused bitcoin's price to surge by over $1,000.
* Both former SEC Chair Gary Gensler and X were quick to confirm that the account had been compromised at the time.

**CZ says Binance's token listings are a 'bit broken'**

Changpeng "CZ" Zhao, the founder and former CEO of Binance, criticized the crypto exchange giant's token listing process, calling it a "bit broken."

* Zhao flagged the rapid timeline between announcements and listings, typically only around four hours, which can cause price fluctuations on decentralized exchanges.
* "The notice period is necessary, but in those 4 hours, the token prices go high on DEXs, and then people sell on CEX... Not sure if there is a solution for this though. Just beware," he said.
* Zhao's comment came in response to the surge in popularity of TST, a test memecoin shown in a BNB Chain video tutorial that was subsequently listed on Binance, prompting his comments.

**Strategy resumes bitcoin buying spree**

Strategy (formerly MicroStrategy) has resumed its bitcoin purchases, acquiring another 7,633 BTC for approximately $742.4 million at an average price of $97,255 per bitcoin between Feb. 3 and Feb. 9, according to an 8-K filing with the SEC on Monday.

* The company now holds 478,740 BTC, worth over $46 billion, having spent around $31.1 billion on its total holdings, bought at an average price of $65,033 per bitcoin.
* The latest acquisitions follow the sale of Strategy stock equivalent to the same amount.
* Co-founder Michael Saylor again hinted at the likelihood of another bitcoin acquisition filing ahead of time, sharing an update on Strategy's bitcoin purchase tracker on Sunday, stating, "Death to the blue lines. Long live the green dots."

**Dave Portnoy's memecoin shenanigans**

Barstool Sports founder Dave Portnoy faced a backlash for discussing his memecoin trades over the weekend, accused by some of dumping tokens on his 3.5 million followers on X.

* "I turned like 10 grand total into like 75 grand...I don't even know what I'm doing with my life," Portnoy said. "Do you go to jail for this? Can I not do this?"
* Portnoy defended his actions as being open and transparent, then doubled down by promoting the "JAILSTOOL" token, which subsequently surged to a market cap over $250 million after Kraken, a sponsor of Portnoy's "Davey Day Trader Global" livestream, listed it.
* "It's so stupid it may be foolproof," Portnoy said later in a video post referring to his JAILSTOOL plans.

**In the next 24 hours**

* Bank of England Governor Andrew Bailey will speak at 7:15 a.m. ET on Tuesday. U.S. Federal Reserve Chair Jerome Powell testifies on the economic outlook and recent monetary policy actions before the Joint Economic Committee at 10 a.m. U.S. FOMC members Michelle Bowman and John Williams are scheduled to speak at 3:30 p.m.
* Axie Infinity is set to unlock 815.63K AXS tokens worth $3.52 million, representing 0.51% of the circulating supply. EigenLayer will release 1.29 million EIGEN tokens worth $2.25 million, 0.55% of its circulating supply.

*Never miss a beat with The Block's daily digest of the most influential events happening across the digital asset* ecosystem.

Disclaimer: The Block is an independent media outlet that delivers news, research, and data. As of November 2023, Foresight Ventures is a majority investor of The Block. Foresight Ventures invests in other companies in the crypto space. Crypto exchange Bitget is an anchor LP for Foresight Ventures. The Block continues to operate independently to deliver objective, impactful, and timely information about the crypto industry. Here are our current financial disclosures.

© 2024 The Block. All Rights Reserved. This article is provided for informational purposes only. It is not offered or intended to be used as legal, tax, investment, financial, or other advice.

[The Block](https://www.tradingview.com/news/the_block:7235650ad094b:0-the-daily-quest-to-find-bitcoin-fortune-in-garbage-dump-continues-dave-portnoy-s-memecoin-antics-and-more/)
