---
title: "NFT brand Doodles to launch Solana-based token called DOOD"
date: "2025-02-14 01:33:13"
summary: "The NFT brand Doodles plans to launch its own Solana-based token called DOOD.Out of the 10 billion total token supply, 30% will go to the Doodles community, 25% to its ecosystem fund, 17% to the team, 13% to “new blood,” 10% to liquidity and 5% to the company, Doodles wrote..."
categories:
  - "The Block"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "The Block"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The NFT brand Doodles plans to launch its own Solana-based token called DOOD.

Out of the 10 billion total token supply, 30% will go to the Doodles community, 25% to its ecosystem fund, 17% to the team, 13% to “new blood,” 10% to liquidity and 5% to the company, Doodles wrote in a Thursday social media post. The Doodles team plans to eventually bridge the token to the Coinbase-incubated Layer 2 Base.

Doodles follows Pudgy Penguins as the latest NFT brand to announce a token airdrop. In December 2024, Pudgy Penguins launched its token PENGU with a total supply of 88,888,888,888 on the Solana network.

Though Doodles initially started out as an NFT project of 10,000 collectible artworks, the brand has expanded into animation, music and even a partnership with fast food giant McDonald's. Doodles brought in $2.46 million in trading volume between Feb. 2 and Feb. 9, according to The Block's Data Dashboard.

The Block reached out to Doodles for comment.

Disclaimer: The Block is an independent media outlet that delivers news, research, and data. As of November 2023, Foresight Ventures is a majority investor of The Block. Foresight Ventures invests in other companies in the crypto space. Crypto exchange Bitget is an anchor LP for Foresight Ventures. The Block continues to operate independently to deliver objective, impactful, and timely information about the crypto industry. Here are our current financial disclosures.

© 2024 The Block. All Rights Reserved. This article is provided for informational purposes only. It is not offered or intended to be used as legal, tax, investment, financial, or other advice.

[The Block](https://www.tradingview.com/news/the_block:a1241481b094b:0-nft-brand-doodles-to-launch-solana-based-token-called-dood/)
