---
title: "US stocks steady after weak nonfarm payrolls; Amazon disappoints"
date: "2025-02-07 22:43:58"
summary: "Investing.com- US stock index futures traded in a steady fashion as investors digested the US economy adding fewer jobs than anticipated in January, as well as a weak revenue outlook from retail giant Amazon weighed.At 09:35 ET (14:35 GMT), the Dow Jones Industrial Average fell 7 points, or 0.1%, while..."
categories:
  - "investing_us"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "investing_us"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Investing.com- US stock index futures traded in a steady fashion as investors digested the US economy adding fewer jobs than anticipated in January, as well as a weak revenue outlook from retail giant Amazon weighed.  
At 09:35 ET (14:35 GMT), the Dow Jones Industrial Average fell 7 points, or 0.1%, while the S&P 500 index gained 10 points, or 0.2%, and the NASDAQ Composite rose 50 points, or 0.3%.   
Payrolls grow by less than expected   
Nonfarm payrolls rose by 143,000 in January, down from an upwardly-revised level of 307,000 in December, according to Labor Department data. Economists had seen the number at 169,000.  
This release pointed to a slowing in labor demand, which could persuade the Federal Reserve to ease monetary policy once more earlier than had been expected, although analysts noted the figures may be distorted by revisions and extreme weather events during the month.  
Earlier this week, separate data points showed that private payrolls expanded in January, while job openings slipped by the most in 14 months.  
A weakening labor market gives the Federal Reserve more impetus to cut interest rates, even after Fed officials had already signaled their intent to keep rates elevated amid concerns over sticky inflation.  
Fed officials also cited uncertainty over President Donald Trump’s policies in their plans to keep rates steady. Trump recently sparked a renewed trade war with China by imposing 10% trade tariffs against the country, with Beijing retaliating in kind.  
Amazon sinks on weak guidance  
Amazon (NASDAQ:AMZN) stock fell 2% after the e-commerce major forecast first quarter 2025 sales of $151 billion to $155.5 billion, weaker than estimates of $158.33 billion.  
While the company did report stronger-than-expected earnings for the final quarter of 2024, its top line is expected to face increased pressure from a stronger dollar, which will stymie e-commerce returns from overseas markets.   
Amazon’s cloud unit - Amazon Web Services - also marked weaker-than-expected earnings, joining its Wall Street peers such as Microsoft (NASDAQ:MSFT) and Google (NASDAQ:GOOGL) in reporting weak cloud growth.   
This trend raised some questions about the returns on investment from artificial intelligence, especially as Wall Street’s internet giants flagged plans to ramp up their AI-related capital spending in 2025.  
Elsewhere, Tesla (NASDAQ:TSLA stock fell 0.4% after the automaker’s sales of China-made electric vehicles fell 11.5% to 63,238 units in January from a year earlier, data from the China Passenger Car Association showed on Friday.  
Pinterest (NYSE:PINS) stock gained 19% after the social media service reported a strong holiday-quarter performance, posting better-than-anticipated revenue of $1.15 billion - crossing the $1 billion milestone for the first time ever.  
 Affirm Holdings (NASDAQ:AFRM) stock soared 23% after the provider of buy now, pay later loans posted a surprise quarterly profit on the back of a strong holiday shopping season and forecast an upbeat annual revenue.  
Crude on track for another weekly loss  
Oil prices edged higher Friday, but were on track for a third straight negative week, hurt by the renewed trade war between China and the US, and the potential of tariff hikes from the Trump administration on other countries.  
By 09:35 ET, the U.S. crude futures (WTI) had gained 0.6% to $71.06 a barrel, while the Brent contract had risen 0.7% to $74.77 a barrel.  
Both benchmarks are on track to register losses of around 2% this week.  
Trump announced a 10% tariff on Chinese imports earlier this week, but suspended plans to impose steep tariffs on Mexico and Canada. He has also threatened the European Union with duties on exports to the U.S., as part of a broad plan to improve the U.S. trade balance with the bloc.  
(Ambar Warrick contributed to this article.)

[investing_us](https://www.investing.com/news/stock-market-news/us-stocks-steady-after-weak-nonfarm-payrolls-amazon-disappoints-3855328)
