---
title: "Trump ends Biden's security clearances, intelligence briefings"
date: "2025-02-08 09:45:59"
summary: "(Reuters) -U.S. President Donald Trump on Friday said he was revoking former President Joe Biden's security clearances and stopping his daily intelligence briefings as there was no need for his predecessor to receive classified information. In a post on Truth Social, Trump referenced a report by Special Counsel Robert Hur..."
categories:
  - "investing_us"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "investing_us"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

(Reuters) -U.S. President Donald Trump on Friday said he was revoking former President Joe Biden's security clearances and stopping his daily intelligence briefings as there was no need for his predecessor to receive classified information. In a post on Truth Social, Trump referenced a report by Special Counsel Robert Hur that described Biden last year as a "well-meaning, elderly man with a poor memory." Biden said at the time that his memory was fine. A spokesperson for Biden declined to comment when contacted by Reuters on Friday. Hur in 2024 also said Biden would not face charges for knowingly taking classified documents when he left the vice presidency in 2017. Biden said the accusation that he had willfully kept the classified material was "just plain wrong." Former presidents traditionally receive some intelligence briefings even after they have left office. In his post on Friday, Trump also said Biden used his time in office to instruct the intelligence community to stop Trump from accessing details on national security. In 2021, shortly after taking office, Biden told CBS he did not believe Trump should have access to intelligence briefings because of his "erratic behavior" and concern he might share information. "What value is giving him an intelligence briefing? What impact does he have at all, other than the fact he might slip and say something?" Biden said at the time.

[investing_us](https://www.investing.com/news/economy-news/trump-ends-bidens-access-to-classified-information-3857672)
