---
title: "BofA explains how the trade war could remain contained"
date: "2025-02-09 23:02:01"
summary: "On Friday, BofA Global Research released a US Economics report on the possible ramifications of American tariffs on its global trade partners.Analysts warn that evolving news about tariff actions might cause investors to focus on headlines instead of important underlying factors. But, they say, the best course of action for..."
categories:
  - "investing_us"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "investing_us"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

On Friday, BofA Global Research released a US Economics report on the possible ramifications of American tariffs on its global trade partners.Analysts warn that evolving news about tariff actions might cause investors to focus on headlines instead of important underlying factors. But, they say, the best course of action for investors is to consider the broader picture of incentive structures and the U.S. administration’s priorities.The report states that the magnitude of the effect of the tariff can vary based on whether the U.S. administration prioritizes economic growth or tariff revenues and bilateral trade deficits. The latter situation would likely cause escalation among nations trading with the US.The report notes that the firm anticipates January headline and core CPI to increase by 0.3% m/m, while the y/y rates will likely decline to 2.8% and 3.1% respectively. The firm believes seasonal factor revisions are likely to be modest and won’t change the Fed’s narrative. As of now, it is expected that the Fed will stay on hold. The January Institute for Supply Management (ISM) manufacturing index is at 50.9, which is its highest and most expansionary level since 2022, the report observes. Along with the pickup in new orders and production indices, the high manufacturing index makes the firm optimistic about the sector.A previous BofA report had predicted that Mexico and Canada would not face tariffs, and this report notes that the model used to make that prediction has been justified. These countries have a high degree of integration with the U.S., and their intermediate goods cross borders more than ten times in the case of sectors like auto.Trump’s tariffs on Canada and Mexico are likely moves to increase US leverage, and will probably be subject to negotiation on terms pertaining to migration and drug trafficking. The firm continues to believe the high tariff rate of 25% sounds unlikely to be implemented as it would substantially disrupt trade between the countries. However, tariffs on China are likely to remain in place.The report elaborates that even if some of the proposed China tariffs are removed or watered down, they are likely to be implemented again at a future time. This is because China and the U.S. are geopolitical rivals with a longstanding history of tensions. Notably, the tariffs on China are also much smaller at 10pp. This implies that the associated economic costs are relatively minor and so the tariffs are likely to stick.“We continue to maintain our base case of a 20 pp average increase in tariffs on Chinese goods over the course of this year. About half of that projection on Chinese tariffs took effect this week,” BofA added.The tariff environment for Europe is yet to be decided, says the report. But the firm believes some increases in EU tariffs are imminent as the U.S. has a $240bn trade deficit with the region. Also, the U.S. wants the EU to manufacture more cars in the US, and bear more of the costs of NATO via increased defense spending. These priorities will likely push the US administration to use tariffs to encourage EU compliance.

[investing_us](https://www.investing.com/news/pro/bofa-explains-how-the-trade-war-could-remain-contained-432SI-3857888)
