---
title: "Wall Street futures slip, dollar climbs on tariff threats"
date: "2025-02-10 07:45:40"
summary: "By Wayne Cole SYDNEY (Reuters) - Wall Street share futures fell and the dollar rose broadly on Monday after U.S. President Donald Trump repeated warnings of imminent tariffs including on steel and aluminium, an inflationary move that could limit the scope for rate cuts. Speaking to reporters on Air Force..."
categories:
  - "investing_us"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "investing_us"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Wayne Cole SYDNEY (Reuters) - Wall Street share futures fell and the dollar rose broadly on Monday after U.S. President Donald Trump repeated warnings of imminent tariffs including on steel and aluminium, an inflationary move that could limit the scope for rate cuts. Speaking to reporters on Air Force One, Trump said he would announce on Monday 25% tariffs on all steel and aluminium imports into the U.S., and reveal other reciprocal tariffs on Tuesday or Wednesday. The comments came just after German Chancellor Olaf Scholz said the European Union was ready to respond "within an hour" if the U.S. levied tariffs on European goods, highlighting the risks of an escalating trade war. China's retaliatory tariffs on some U.S. exports are due to take effect on Monday, with no sign as yet of progress between Beijing and Washington. Analysts assume currencies from those countries targeted by Trump will tend to fall against the dollar to help compensate in part for the taxes, keeping their exports competitive. Tariffs could also put upward pressure on U.S. inflation and further limit room for the Federal Reserve to ease policy. Markets had already scaled back expected rate cuts this year to just 36 basis points, from around 42 basis points, following an upbeat payrolls report on Friday. Fed Chair Jerome Powell is due to appear before the House of Representatives on Tuesday and Wednesday and the impact of tariffs on policy is sure to be a hot button issue. His Wednesday testimony will also follow consumer price data for January which might hint at early pressure given anecdotal evidence of firms raising prices in anticipation of the taxes. A survey of consumers out on Friday showed a sharp rise in inflation expectations for the year ahead, though the longer-term outlook was steadier. DOLLAR UP WITH YIELDS Investors reacted by pushing the dollar broadly higher, with its index up 0.3% at 108.38. The euro dipped 0.3% to $1.0295, while the trade-exposed Australian dollar fell 0.5% to $0.6245. [USD/] The dollar was steady on the yen at 151.32, with the Japanese currency underpinned by speculation the Bank of Japan will raise rates in the next few months. Nikkei futures were trading down at 38,415, from a cash close on Friday of 38,787. S&P 500 futures slipped 0.2%, while Nasdaq futures dipped 0.3%. Shares were also roiled by some mixed earnings numbers last week, though overall earnings per share growth is running at 12% and above early expectations of 8%. "Tariffs are a key downside risk to our 2025 EPS forecasts," warned analysts at Goldman Sachs, who estimated that the effective U.S. tariff rate would likely rise by five percentage points, knocking 1% to 2% off earnings per share. "Heightened policy uncertainty represents downside risk to valuation because it raises the equity risk premium and implies downward pressure on fair value," they said in a note. The risk of reigniting inflation also slugged Treasuries, and yields on 10-year notes were at 4.495%, from last week's low of 4.400%. The strength of the dollar and higher yields have not prevented gold prices from reaching record highs at $2,886 an ounce, helped in part by talk Trump might impose tariffs on the metal. [GOL/] This has led to stepped up demand for physical gold in London to be shipped to the U.S. to avoid any new taxes, reflected by selling of LME gold futures to buy Comex futures. The metal was steady at $2,860 per ounce early Monday.

[investing_us](https://www.investing.com/news/stock-market-news/wall-st-futures-slip-dollar-climbs-on-tariff-threats-3857941)
