---
title: "Investing.com’s stocks of the week"
date: "2025-02-08 17:30:00"
summary: "Investing.com - Earnings releases (alongside President Trump) have taken the majority of the market news headlines this week, resulting in some significant moves. Here's a look at some of the names that stood out:Palantir (NASDAQ:PLTR)Palantir shares surged after earnings, topping earnings and revenue expectations and providing a strong outlook. At..."
categories:
  - "investing_us"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "investing_us"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Investing.com - Earnings releases (alongside President Trump) have taken the majority of the market news headlines this week, resulting in some significant moves. Here's a look at some of the names that stood out:  
Palantir (NASDAQ:PLTR)  
Palantir shares surged after earnings, topping earnings and revenue expectations and providing a strong outlook. At the time of writing on Friday, the stock has hit a new high above $116 a share.  
While some have questioned the valuation, analysts at Wedbush remain bullish, raising their target for the stock to $120 from $90 following the report, maintaining an Outperform rating on the stock.   
“There are some transformational tech stocks that come along every decade and change the landscape...Palantir is one of them in our view and proved it for all the tech world to see last night,” said the firm. “Palantir is helping lead the AI Revolution into the use case phase as its AIP product moat is unmatched in our view.”  
Nvidia (NASDAQ:NVDA)  
After a recent decline, Nvidia shares have managed to regain some ground this week, bolstered by continued Capex spending boosts by hyperscalers and the ramping of its new Blackwell chip.   
On its conference call Tuesday evening, Google-parent Alphabet (NASDAQ:GOOGL) said they would spend $75 billion in capex in 2025 versus prior analyst expectations of $58 billion.  
 Morgan Stanley (NYSE:MS) said in a recent note that it sees strong indications that Nvidia’s data center customers remain committed to large-scale AI investments.  
"Talking to our cloud contacts, we are hearing that none of this changes the plans of any of the major participants," analysts wrote.  
Google, Amazon (NASDAQ:AMZN)  
Tech giants Alphabet (Google) and Amazon both declined post-earnings releases this week.   
While Alphabet reported Q4 EPS of $2.15, $0.03 better than the analyst estimate of $2.12, revenue for the quarter came in at $96.47 billion, below the consensus estimate of $96.69 billion.  
TD Cowen cut its target for the stock to $220 from $225 following the report, maintaining a Buy rating. The bank highlighted that the slight Cloud miss had offset the Search and Youtube revenue beat.  
Meanwhile, Amazon’s earnings and revenue beat expectations, but its Q1 revenue forecast of $151 to $155.5 billion came in below the consensus estimate of $155.33 billion.  
Despite the disappointing Q1 revenue outlook, analysts at Stifle lifted their target for Amazon to $275 from $245, keeping a Buy rating on the stock.   
The firm stated: “[The] 1Q guide was light, as we previewed (FX headwind, leap year), but the surprise came in the form of management's expectations for ~$100bn in Capex this year.”  
Tesla (NASDAQ:TSLA)  
Tesla shares have declined this week as investors worried that the electric vehicle giant could be one of the names significantly impacted by reciprocal tariffs.  
While Trump’s recent move to impose 25% tariffs on Canada and Mexico was delayed, it was reported Friday that he will announce reciprocal tariffs on many countries next week.  
Tesla shares are down 1.9% at the time of writing on Friday.

[investing_us](https://www.investing.com/news/stock-market-news/investingcoms-stocks-of-the-week-3857316)
