---
title: "Stifel: Americas Food Stocks 4Q24 preview and 2025 outlook"
date: "2025-02-08 17:01:01"
summary: "On Tuesday, Stifel released its 4Q24 preview for Americas food stock companies under coverage. The firm maintained a Neutral weighting for the Food group citing a valuation that is a discount to history. The Neutral weight reflects a weak revenue outlook, and reinvestment requirements pressuring margins.The report notes that food..."
categories:
  - "investing_us"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "investing_us"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

On Tuesday, Stifel released its 4Q24 preview for Americas food stock companies under coverage. The firm maintained a Neutral weighting for the Food group citing a valuation that is a discount to history. The Neutral weight reflects a weak revenue outlook, and reinvestment requirements pressuring margins.The report notes that food stocks underperformed the S&P 500 and consumer staples group by -1520BPS and -850BPS respectively in 4Q. The packaged food group now stands at the 3rd percentile relative multiple in relation to the S&P 500. The firm believes this reflects the uncertainty in the pace of revenue improvement and the potential for heavier reinvestment to improve market share and overall consumption.The firm identifies Campbell Soup Company (NYSE:CPB), The Hain Celestial Group (NASDAQ:HAIN), and Kraft Heinz Co (NASDAQ:KHC) as the best in terms of the mix of operating fundamentals and valuation levels.While the report also names Conagra Brands, Inc (NYSE:CAG), JM Smucker Company (NYSE:SJM), and Treehouse Foods Inc (NYSE:THS) as interesting, it observes that the firm remains cautious on the earnings outlook in each case.On a purely fundamental basis, the firm picks Bellring Brands LLC (NYSE:BRBR), Campbell, Hain, and McCormick & Company Inc (NYSE:MKC) as having the strongest outlooks across its food stock universe.Raw input costs are projected to go up by mid-single digits in 2025, driven primarily by cocoa, says the report. Furthermore, given the weak volume environment and share pressure faced by manufacturers, the firm expects to see incremental promotional spending.Margins can be expected to contract as firms increase their investments in promotional and merchandising activity. The impact of inflation too will erode margins. The primary risk to the margin outlook, in the firm’s opinion, is competitive activity in a weak volume environment. Gross margins are expected to contract about -90BPS in food stocks, with most of this driven by Hershey and Mondelez. To offset increased investments for upside to margins these companies will have to drive volume improvement.FX will be a drag of about -3% for companies in the food space, both in the first and second half of the year, observes the report. Based on the firm’s estimates, large-cap packaged foods group companies, which have +3% constant currency, will see a flat EPS performance in 2025.The lackluster revenue trends in 2025 increase the probability of consolidation/activism among companies in this space.

[investing_us](https://www.investing.com/news/pro/stifel-americas-food-stocks-4q24-preview-and-2025-outlook-432SI-3857751)
