---
title: "UBS says this name offers a ‘solid opportunity to buy a growth stock’"
date: "2025-02-10 15:01:01"
summary: "Investing.com- UBS analysts outlined a U.S.-listed footwear stock with great potential for 2025, while also stating that the stock was currently “underappreciated” and a “solid opportunity.” UBS also noted that the company’s big investments were paying off, especially when compared to competitors such as Nike (NYSE:NKE), which was trading at..."
categories:
  - "investing_us"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "investing_us"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Investing.com- UBS analysts outlined a U.S.-listed footwear stock with great potential for 2025, while also stating that the stock was currently “underappreciated” and a “solid opportunity.” UBS also noted that the company’s big investments were paying off, especially when compared to competitors such as Nike (NYSE:NKE), which was trading at a substantially higher price-to-earnings ratio.UBS reiterated its Buy rating on Skechers, although it did trim its price target to $90 from $92. The new PT represents a 36% rise from SKE’s last close. UBS lauded the footwear maker’s strong fourth-quarter earnings, stating that they demonstrated the brand’s global reach and strong product offerings. But UBS did note that foreign exchange fluctuations would provide near-term headwinds to earnings, given recent strength in the U.S. dollar, with SKX having also provided softer-than-expected 2025 guidance. SKX’s strong distribution network was cited as a major advantage over its peers by UBS, with the investment bank stating that this was the key reason why it preferred the stock over Nike, which UBS rates Neutral. “We'd rather own the stock of a company that has made the big investments whosebusiness is on the upswing rather than one that has essentially underinvested and has to rethink its distribution model while its business is on the downswing,” analysts said. SKX had invested heavily in its distribution network over the past two years, and has a global presence for its brand. UBS noted that SKX was trading at a “beatable” P/E ratio of 15x for 2025, much more attractive than NKE’s 33x.Skechers is trading down 1.9% so far in 2025.

[investing_us](https://www.investing.com/news/pro/ubs-says-this-name-offers-a-solid-opportunity-to-buy-a-growth-stock-432SI-3858092)
