---
title: "US Steel, McDonald's and Rockwell rise premarket; Hyatt Hotels falls"
date: "2025-02-10 20:54:21"
summary: "Investing.com - US stock futures rose Monday , as investors digested President Donald Trump’s reported plans to announce a blanket 25% tariff on all steel and aluminum imports.Here are some of the biggest premarket US stock movers today:United States Steel Corporation (NYSE:X) stock gained over 4%, while Nucor (NYSE:NUE) and..."
categories:
  - "investing_us"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "investing_us"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Investing.com - US stock futures rose Monday , as investors digested President Donald Trump’s reported plans to announce a blanket 25% tariff on all steel and aluminum imports.  
Here are some of the biggest premarket US stock movers today:  
  
United States Steel Corporation (NYSE:X) stock gained over 4%, while Nucor (NYSE:NUE) and Cleveland-Cliffs (NYSE:CLF) stocks all soared over 8% higher in the wake of the report of tariffs on steel and aluminum imports.  
  
  
McDonald’s (NYSE:MCD) stock rose 2% after the fast food giant’s comparable sales topped estimates in the fourth quarter, as the burger giant's international licensed markets business was boosted by strength in the Middle East and Japan.  
  
  
BP (NYSE:BP) ADRs rose 6.6% following reports that activist investor Elliott Investment Management has acquired a stake in the oil major, pushing for changes to boost shareholder value.  
  
  
Rivian (NASDAQ:RIVN) stock rose 0.6% after the EV manufacturer said it is opening up sales of its delivery vans to fleets of all sizes in the United States, more than a year after ending its exclusive deal with shareholder Amazon (NASDAQ:AMZN).  
  
  
Intel (NASDAQ:INTC) stock rose 0.5% after the embattled chipmaker said data center and artificial intelligence head Justin Hotard is due to step down from the post, in the latest leadership shake-up.  
  
  
Rockwell Automation (NYSE:ROK) stock soared 6.2% after the industrial automation company reported better-than-expected first-quarter fiscal 2025 earnings, as its focus on operational excellence and cost discipline yielded stronger margins than anticipated.   
  
  
Hyatt Hotels (NYSE:H) stock fell 0.4% after the hotels chain agreed to buy Playa Hotels & Resorts (NASDAQ:PLYA) for about $2.6 billion including debt, net of cash, seeking to expand its presence in Mexico and the Caribbean.  
  
  
Monday.Com (NASDAQ:MNDY) stock rose 23% after the project management software maker reported better-than-expected Q4 results and offered an upbeat outlook for the first quarter of fiscal 2025.  
  
  
 Arm Holdings (NASDAQ:ARM) stock rose 0.4% after Loop Capital said the semiconductor shares could climb 20% after its earnings beat.   
  
  
 Mobileye Global (NASDAQ:MBLY) stock rose 2.8% after Bank of America upgraded its stance on the self-driving car systems manufacturer to ‘neutral’ from ‘underperform’ on Monday, citing reduced downside risks and potential catalysts in 2025.

[investing_us](https://www.investing.com/news/stock-market-news/us-steel-mcdonalds-and-rockwell-rise-premarket-hyatt-hotels-falls-3859021)
