---
title: "Shopify Q4 earnings preview: here’s what analysts expect"
date: "2025-02-11 15:01:01"
summary: "Investing.com- Shopify (NYSE:SHOP) is set to report its fourth-quarter earnings before the market opens on Tuesday, with analysts forecasting a strong print amid sustained strength in its core e-commerce business. Shopify is expected to post earnings per share of $0.427 on a revenue of $2.73 billion for the three months..."
categories:
  - "investing_us"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "investing_us"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Investing.com- Shopify (NYSE:SHOP) is set to report its fourth-quarter earnings before the market opens on Tuesday, with analysts forecasting a strong print amid sustained strength in its core e-commerce business. Shopify is expected to post earnings per share of $0.427 on a revenue of $2.73 billion for the three months to December 31, according to Investing.com data. That compares to EPS of $0.34 and revenue of $2.05 billion from the same period a year ago.Morgan Stanley analysts said strong holiday spending trends and merchant checks pointed to a strong Q4, and also set the stage for a strong 2025. MS rates the stock at Overweight.Analysts noted that SHOP has largely outperformed large-cap software stocks over the past three months on momentum from a positive Q3 earnings report. This trend is expected to continue with its Q4 print. Strong U.S. holiday spending- especially during Thanksgiving and Christmas- coupled with continued signs of durable consumer spending- both pointed to a strong print for SHOP, which is one of the most popular ecommerce platforms in the world. “We believe Shopify will deliver upside in the quarter, and importantly, we remainfirmly OW Shopify into 2025 given ongoing potential for estimate revisions onboth the top and bottom line supporting durability of mid 20s growth andoutsized Free Cash Flow generation,” analysts wrote in a note. MS also noted growth in SHOP’s offline market- specifically its point-of-sales offering, as well as progress in its international market share. Wolfe Research analysts also forecast and “across the board” beat for Q4, and expect SHOP to guide a strong Q1. Wolfe rates SHOP at Outperform, stating that the company is likely to extend its leadership in the e-commerce market. Wolfe also lauded the company’s shares, which have outperformed the S&P 500 through 2024. “We also believe that the company will continue to show improving profitability and FCF dynamics and we see upside to estimates,” analysts said. They noted that while SHOP did trade at a “rich multiple” to earnings, the price was “reasonable” based on its growth trajectory.

[investing_us](https://www.investing.com/news/pro/shopify-q4-earnings-preview-heres-what-analysts-expect-432SI-3860609)
