---
title: "Coca-Cola, Humana, Leidos rise premarket; Shopify falls"
date: "2025-02-11 21:12:09"
summary: "Investing.com - US stock futures fell Tuesday, as investors awaited Fed chief Jerome Powell’s first day testimony on Capitol Hill, ahead of the release of crucial inflation data.Here are some of the biggest premarket US stock movers today:Shopify (NYSE:SHOP) stock fell 3.7% after the e-commerce company’s downbeat first-quarter profit outlook..."
categories:
  - "investing_us"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "investing_us"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Investing.com - US stock futures fell Tuesday, as investors awaited Fed chief Jerome Powell’s first day testimony on Capitol Hill, ahead of the release of crucial inflation data.  
Here are some of the biggest premarket US stock movers today:  
  
Shopify (NYSE:SHOP) stock fell 3.7% after the e-commerce company’s downbeat first-quarter profit outlook disappointed, even as it posted better-than-expected holiday-quarter sales on the back of healthy consumer spending and its rollout of AI features.  
  
  
Coca-Cola (NYSE:KO) stock rose 3.5% after the soft drinks giant beat estimates for fourth-quarter profit and revenue, helped by resilient demand for its sodas and juices and higher prices.  
  
  
Marriott International (NASDAQ:MAR) stock fell 2.3% after the hotel operator forecast 2025 profit below estimates, hurt by poor performance at its hotels in Greater China.  
  
  
 Leidos Holdings (NYSE:LDOS) stock rose 3% after the defense contractor beat expectations for fourth-quarter earnings, aided by increased military spending and robust weapons demand amid rising geopolitical tensions.  
  
  
Humana (NYSE:HUM) stock rose 3.1% despite the insurer forecasting annual profit below estimates, signaling that costs from its government-backed plans for older Americans would remain elevated for the rest of the year.  
  
  
Tesla (NASDAQ:TSLA) stock fell 0.8% after Oppenheimer warned that the auto manufacturer faces rising risks as competition in both electric and autonomous vehicles heats up, trimming their 2025 and 2026 delivery estimates as a result.  
  
  
Carrier Global (NYSE:CARR) stock rose 1.2% after the company reported a better-than-expected fourth-quarter profit, benefiting from demand for its heating, ventilating and air conditioning products and aftermarket repair services.  
  
  
Lattice (OTC:LTTC) stock rose 13% after the chipmaker beat expectations on revenue in the fourth quarter, rising to $117.4 million.  
  
  
First Solar (NASDAQ:FSLR) stock rose 1.6% after Mizuho (NYSE:MFG) upgraded its stance on the solar technology supplier to ‘outperform’ from ‘neutral’ on an improved post-2026 sales outlook.

[investing_us](https://www.investing.com/news/stock-market-news/cocacola-humana-leidos-rise-premarket-shopify-falls-3861606)
