---
title: "Canned tuna from Traders Joe's, Walmart, and Cosco recalled over potential contamination risk"
date: "2025-02-12 03:38:55"
summary: "Investing.com - Tri-Union Seafoods has chosen to voluntarily recall certain batches of canned tuna products. The products are sold under the brand names Genova®, Van Camp’s®, H-E-B, and Trader Joe’s. The decision for this recall is due to a precautionary measure after the company was notified by its supplier about..."
categories:
  - "investing_us"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "investing_us"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Investing.com - Tri-Union Seafoods has chosen to voluntarily recall certain batches of canned tuna products. The products are sold under the brand names Genova®, Van Camp’s®, H-E-B, and Trader Joe’s. The decision for this recall is due to a precautionary measure after the company was notified by its supplier about a manufacturing defect. This defect involved the "easy open" pull tab can lid on limited products, which could compromise the product seal over time. This could lead to leakage or, in a more severe scenario, contamination with clostridium botulinum, a potentially deadly form of food poisoning.Customers are advised not to consume the product, even if it doesn't appear or smell spoiled. Those who feel sick after consuming the product should seek immediate medical help. So far, there have been no reported illnesses associated with the recalled products. The recall is being carried out to ensure the safety of consumers.The affected products have been distributed to retail stores in various locations. The H-E-B label was distributed in Texas. The Trader Joe’s label was distributed in Delaware, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kansas, Kentucky, Maryland, Michigan, Minnesota, Missouri, Nebraska, New Jersey, New York, North Carolina, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Virginia, Washington D.C., and Wisconsin. The Genova 7 oz. was distributed to Costco (NASDAQ:COST) in Florida and Georgia. The Genova 5 oz. was distributed to Harris Teeter, Publix, H-E-B, Kroger (NYSE:KR), Safeway, Walmart (NYSE:WMT), and independent retailers in Alabama, Arkansas, Arizona, California, Florida, Georgia, North Carolina, New Jersey, Tennessee, and Texas. The Van Camp’s label was distributed to Walmart and independent retailers in Pennsylvania, Florida, and New Jersey.This article was generated with the support of AI and reviewed by an editor. For more information see our T&C.

[investing_us](https://www.investing.com/news/stock-market-news/canned-tuna-from-traders-joes-walmart-and-cosco-recalled-over-potential-contamination-risk-93CH-3862693)
