---
title: "Biogen Biogen Q4 earnings preview: here’s what to expect"
date: "2025-02-12 15:02:02"
summary: "Investing.com- Biogen (NASDAQ:BIIB) is set to report its fourth quarter earnings before the market opens on Wednesday, with the biopharma firm expected to clock mild earnings growth on a slightly lower revenue. Sales of BIIB’s staple multiple sclerosis and muscular atrophy drugs are expected to read lower for the quarter...."
categories:
  - "investing_us"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "investing_us"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Investing.com- Biogen (NASDAQ:BIIB) is set to report its fourth quarter earnings before the market opens on Wednesday, with the biopharma firm expected to clock mild earnings growth on a slightly lower revenue. Sales of BIIB’s staple multiple sclerosis and muscular atrophy drugs are expected to read lower for the quarter. But this is likely to have been offset by new drug launches, such as Skyclarys and Zurzuvae. Still, analysts at BofA said they were unable to see a Buy case for BIIB, stating that they still saw little upside factors for the company’s shares. BofA rates BIIB at Neutral with a price objective of $163- which it cut from $178 on Tuesday. BIIB is expected to report earnings per share of $3.41 on a revenue of $2.41 billion, according to Investing.com data. Analysts at BofA said that while they do expect the firm’s Leqembi Alzheimer’s drug to eventually drive growth, near-term bottlenecks in the drug’s development point to only a gradual uptake. BIIB developed Leqembi in collaboration with Japan’s Eisai. BIIB, along with rival Eli Lilly, are the only two companies that have FDA-approved Alzheimer’s drugs in the market, giving them a valuable niche. BofA noted that the rest of BIIB’s portfolio, however, was under pressure from generics and branded competition, and that the investment bank “struggle(d) to find a cohesive "buy case" or nearer-term drivers of a sentiment shift at the moment.” For the Q4 earnings, BofA said focus will be on 2025 guidance, as well as BIIB’s current capacity for M&A.

[investing_us](https://www.investing.com/news/pro/biogen-biogen-q4-earnings-preview-heres-what-to-expect-432SI-3863476)
