---
title: "Kraft Heinz, Lyft fall premarket; CVS Health, DoorDash and Restaurant Brands rise"
date: "2025-02-12 21:01:20"
summary: "Investing.com - U.S. stock futures slipped marginally lower Wednesday, as investors awaited the release of key inflation data that could guide future Federal reserve policy.Here are some of the biggest premarket US stock movers today:Kraft Heinz (NASDAQ:KHC) stock fell 4.6% after the packaged foods giant forecast annual profit below estimates,..."
categories:
  - "investing_us"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "investing_us"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Investing.com - U.S. stock futures slipped marginally lower Wednesday, as investors awaited the release of key inflation data that could guide future Federal reserve policy.  
Here are some of the biggest premarket US stock movers today:  
  
Kraft Heinz (NASDAQ:KHC) stock fell 4.6% after the packaged foods giant forecast annual profit below estimates, as it contended with sluggish demand for its higher-priced products.  
  
  
CVS Health (NYSE:CVS) stock rose 12% after the pharmacy chain reported fourth-quarter revenue and profit that topped estimates, even as its troubled insurance business continued to see higher medical costs.  
  
  
Restaurant Brands (NYSE:QSR) stock rose 4.1% after the holding company topped market expectations for quarterly revenue, helped by strong demand for value meals at its Burger King chain and strength in its Tim Hortons coffee outlets.  
  
  
 Lyft (NASDAQ:LYFT) stock slumped over 13% after the ride-hailing company forecast current-quarter gross bookings below estimates.  
  
  
DoorDash (NASDAQ:DASH) stock soared 6.2% after the food delivery company reported better-than-expected revenue for the fourth quarter after the previous close.  
  
  
Super Micro Computer (NASDAQ:SMCI) stock gained 10% despite the server maker cutting its annual revenue forecast, adding that it believes it will be able to file delayed annual and quarterly reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission by Feb. 25, after being accused by short seller Hindenburg Research of "accounting manipulation" in August.  
  
  
Gilead Sciences (NASDAQ:GILD) stock climbed 4.6% after the biopharmaceutical firm's fourth-quarter results surpassed expectations on both the top and bottom lines.  
  
  
Barrick Gold (NYSE:GOLD) stock rose 0.8% after the world's second-largest gold miner beat expectations for fourth-quarter profit on higher gold prices and production.  
  
  
Biogen (NASDAQ:BIIB) stock fell 0.9% after the drugmaker forecast 2025 profit below expectations, hurt by a strong dollar and fierce competition for its drugs to treat multiple sclerosis.

[investing_us](https://www.investing.com/news/stock-market-news/kraft-heinz-lyft-fall-premarket-cvs-health-doordash-and-restaurant-brands-rise-3864341)
