---
title: "UK economy unexpectedly grew in Q4; GDP rose 0.1%"
date: "2025-02-13 15:10:59"
summary: "Investing.com - The U.K. economy unexpectedly grew in the final quarter of last year, ruling out the possibility of the sixth largest economy in the world falling into recession early in 2025.Data released earlier Thursday by the Office for National Statistics showed that U.K. gross domestic product expanded by 0.1%..."
categories:
  - "investing_us"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "investing_us"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Investing.com - The U.K. economy unexpectedly grew in the final quarter of last year, ruling out the possibility of the sixth largest economy in the world falling into recession early in 2025.  
Data released earlier Thursday by the Office for National Statistics showed that U.K. gross domestic product expanded by 0.1% in the fourth quarter, after failing to grow in the prior quarter.  
On an annual basis, the U.K. economy grew by 1.4%, an improvement from the revised 1.0% growth over the previous three months.  
U.K. gross domestic product rose 0.4% in December on a monthly basis, an improvement from the 0.1% growth seen in November.  
The Bank of England cut interest rates last week by 25 basis points, reducing its base rate to 4.5% from 4.75%, a continuation of the recent trend toward easing borrowing costs after rates reached a 16-year high.  
The UK central bank also downgraded its growth forecasts for 2025, halving its projection from 1.5% to 0.75%, suggesting that further interest rate cuts are on the horizon.  
This had raised expectations that the final quarter of last year would see a contraction, raising the potential for the U.K. to suffer a second shallow “technical recession” in little more than a year if the first quarter of 2025 also proved disappointing.   
A recession is generally defined by economists as two successive quarters of negative growth.  
The U.K. endured a shallow recession in the second half of 2023, its third in 16 years, although growth bounced back sharply in the first half of 2024.  
Survey data to start the year have also yet to show any bounce back, said analysts at Deutsche Bank, in a recent note.   
“Downside risks to our Q1-25 GDP growth forecast (0.3% q-o-q) are rising with the latest PMI data pointing to only a modest rebound to start the year (0.1%-0.2% q-o-q),” the bank said.

[investing_us](https://www.investing.com/news/economic-indicators/uk-economy-unexpectedly-grew-in-q4-gdp-rose-01-3866487)
