---
title: "Cisco, Robinhood and Crocs rise premarket; Reddit and Deere fall"
date: "2025-02-13 20:45:06"
summary: "Investing.com - US stock futures traded largely flat Thursday, as investors digested hot inflation data, corporate earnings as well the possibility of peace in Ukraine.Here are some of the biggest premarket US stock movers today:Cisco (NASDAQ:CSCO) stock rose 6.3% after the technology conglomerate lifted its annual revenue guidance thanks in..."
categories:
  - "investing_us"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "investing_us"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Investing.com - US stock futures traded largely flat Thursday, as investors digested hot inflation data, corporate earnings as well the possibility of peace in Ukraine.  
Here are some of the biggest premarket US stock movers today:  
  
Cisco (NASDAQ:CSCO) stock rose 6.3% after the technology conglomerate lifted its annual revenue guidance thanks in large part to artificial intelligence-fueled demand for its cloud networking gear.  
  
  
 Reddit (NYSE:RDDT) stock slumped 10% after the social media platform's daily active unique visitors in the fourth quarter missed expectations, with CEO Steve Huffman citing changes in Google's (NASDAQ:GOOGL) search algorithm that impacted the number of users coming to the website.  
  
  
 Dutch Bros (NYSE:BROS) stock surged 23% after the coffee chain reported stronger-than-expected earnings and same-store sales that surpassed expectations.  
  
  
BP (NYSE:BP) ADRs rose 0.6% after the Financial Times reported that activist investor Elliott Management has disclosed a stake of about £3.8 billion pounds ($4.75 billion), making it the oil giant's third-largest shareholder.  
  
  
 Molson Coors (NYSE:TAP) stock rose 6% after the beverage company reported fourth-quarter earnings that beat analyst expectations  
  
  
Deere (NYSE:DE) stock fell 4.9% after the agricultural equipment maker reported a 50% drop in net income in its fiscal first quarter as it grapples with inventory issues and broader market uncertainty.  
  
  
Robinhood (NASDAQ:HOOD) stock soared 12% after the cryptocurrency trading platform reported record fourth-quarter revenue and profit on the back of a resurgence in retail trading.  
  
  
GE HealthCare (NASDAQ:GEHC) stock rose 0.5% after the health technology company posted better-than-expected earnings, benefitting from growth in its ultrasound imaging products and diagnostic drug products.   
  
  
 Crocs (NASDAQ:CROX) stock rose 18% after the footwear company reported better-than-anticipated income in the fourth quarter, boosted by demand in North America and accelerating growth in China.  
  
   
  
Trade Desk (NASDAQ:TTD) stock slumped 29% after the ad tech firm forecast its first-quarter revenue below analysts' estimates.  
  
  
 Applovin (NASDAQ:APP) stock soared 27% after the tech company reported earnings and revenue that sailed past analysts’ estimates and issued better-than-expected guidance.  
  
  
Datadog (NASDAQ:DDOG) stock dropped 8.4% after the cloud monitoring and security platform provider’s guidance disappointed, even as its fourth-quarter earnings beat expectations.

[investing_us](https://www.investing.com/news/stock-market-news/cisco-robinhood-and-crocs-rise-premarket-reddit-and-deere-fall-3867511)
