---
title: "Bitcoin price today: flat at $96k; Gamestop report sparks little cheer"
date: "2025-02-14 14:17:04"
summary: "Investing.com- Bitcoin moved little on Friday and was headed for a muted weekly performance as skittish risk appetite, amid concerns over U.S. trade tariffs and sticky inflation, kept demand for crypto limited.Bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies took little support from reports suggesting that meme stock major GameStop Corp (NYSE:GME) will begin..."
categories:
  - "investing_us"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "investing_us"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Investing.com- Bitcoin moved little on Friday and was headed for a muted weekly performance as skittish risk appetite, amid concerns over U.S. trade tariffs and sticky inflation, kept demand for crypto limited.  
Bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies took little support from reports suggesting that meme stock major GameStop Corp (NYSE:GME) will begin investing in the sector.  
The world’s biggest cryptocurrency steadied at $96,636.0 by 00:52 ET (05:52 GMT), and was also headed for a muted weekly performance.  
Gamestop to consider investing in Bitcoin, crypto- CNBC  
CNBC reported on Thursday that Gamestop- the original meme stock- was considering investing some of its cash holdings into crypto.  
While Gamestop’s shares did rise sharply on the news, this optimism did not translate into crypto prices.   
The company had a cash balance of around $4.62 billion as of the end of the third quarter in 2024, where it also swung to a net income from a net loss in the prior year. It was not immediately clear just how much cash the company planned to deploy into crypto.  
Gamestop is struggling to diversify from its core game retailing business, amid prolonged and intense competition from online game retailers.   
Last week, Gamestop CEO Ryan Cohen posted a photo of him with Microstrategy’s Michael Saylor. Microstrategy (NASDAQ:MSTR) is the largest listed holder of Bitcoin.   
Gamestop has forayed into crypto in the past. The company had briefly launched an online marketplace for non-fungible tokens, but wound down the service in less than two years on waning popularity of NFTs, as well as a prolonged price crash in the sector.  
The company had also offered crypto wallet services, which it suspended citing concerns over regulatory uncertainty.  
Crypto regulations in the U.S. are expected to improve under President Donald Trump, who signed executive orders to establish a regulatory framework for the industry.   
Crypto price today: altcoins muted amid tariff, inflation uncertainty   
Broader crypto prices were a mixed bag on Friday, as improving risk appetite in broader financial markets did not spill over into crypto.  
World no.2 crypto Ether fell 0.7% to $2,700.62, while XRP rose 3.8% to $2.5610.  
Solana, Cardano, and Polygon moved in a tight range, while among meme coins, Dogecoin rose 1.5%, while $TRUMP jumped 8.5% in an extended recovery from record lows.  
Crypto markets largely ducked an overnight rally in U.S. stocks, amid relief over Trump postponing plans to impose reciprocal tariffs against major U.S. trading partners.   
But Trump’s rhetoric on stricter tariffs, as well as his imposition of 25% duties on steel and aluminum imports, had spurred steep losses in crypto over the past week.  
Crypto prices were also pressured by U.S. producer and consumer inflation data reading higher than expected for January, which spurred bets that interest rates will remain steady in the coming months.

[investing_us](https://www.investing.com/news/cryptocurrency-news/bitcoin-price-today-flat-at-96k-gamestop-report-sparks-little-cheer-3869630)
