---
title: "European stocks slip lower after strong week; U.S. tariffs, Ukraine peace in focus"
date: "2025-02-14 16:22:02"
summary: "Investing.com - European stock markets edged lower Friday, with investors taking profits at the end of a positive week, although sentiment has been boosted as U.S. President Donald Trump delayed imposing new reciprocal tariffs on major trading partners, including the European Union.At 03:15 ET (08:15 GMT), the DAX index in..."
categories:
  - "investing_us"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "investing_us"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Investing.com - European stock markets edged lower Friday, with investors taking profits at the end of a positive week, although sentiment has been boosted as U.S. President Donald Trump delayed imposing new reciprocal tariffs on major trading partners, including the European Union.  
At 03:15 ET (08:15 GMT), the DAX index in Germany dropped 0.4%, the FTSE 100 in the U.K. fell 0.3%, while the CAC 40 in France traded largely unchanged.   
Strong gains in Europe   
European stock markets have had a good week, with Germany's DAX index leading the way, hitting a record high on Thursday and registering a gain of almost 4% this week.  
The pan-Europe Stoxx 600 index also hit a new record high this week, prompting Goldman Sachs to raise its 12-month price target, citing factors such as lower risk premium, reduced energy prices, improved consumer confidence, and stronger economic growth as the key drivers.  
Delay to US reciprocal tariffs   
Investors are also breathing a sigh of relief Friday after President Trump delayed the levying of reciprocal tariffs on the U.S.’s major trading partners, including the European Union, until the beginning of April.  
Trump on Thursday signed an executive order outlining plans to impose trade tariffs that would match or surpass those imposed by major trading partners on U.S. imports.   
But Trump did not immediately impose any reciprocal tariffs, as he had previously threatened.   
That said, the European Union is clearly in Trump’s sight, as at the accompanying press conference he took specific aim at the EU's "very nasty" trade policies, repeating his complaints at Brussels' decisions to fine US tech firms such as Google (NASDAQ:GOOGL), Apple (NASDAQ:AAPL), and Facebook (NASDAQ:META).  
"We all love Europe, love the countries in Europe, but the European Union has been absolutely brutal on trade," he said, adding: "The EU's been very nasty and... they haven't treated us properly."  
Ukraine peace in discussion   
Also in the spotlight Friday will be the Munich Security Conference, as the major western powers get together to discuss the future of Ukraine and peace talks with Russia.  
The summit comes just days after President Trump announced that Russia and Ukraine had agreed to start peace talks, with the summit likely to discuss what conditions and compromises Moscow and Kyiv are likely to demand as part of those negotiations.  
Hermes reports strong jump in sales  
There are more corporate results for investors to digest Friday, in what has generally been a strong earnings quarter in Europe.  
Hermes (EPA:HRMS) takes pride of place, as the French luxury group Hermes reported an 18% rise in fourth quarter sales on Friday, continuing to outshine rivals, thanks to its wealthier customers as the industry suffers its slowest sales in years.   
Norsk Hydro (OTC:NHYDY) reported strong fourth-quarter 2024 results, with the Norwegian energy company benefiting from elevated alumina prices and favorable currency exchange rates.   
Tomra (OL:TOM) reported strong fourth-quarter results, with the Norwegian recycling and sensor-based solutions company posting strong year-over-year growth across its key business segments.   
 Safran (EPA:SAF) raised its profit and cash forecasts for 2025, after the French jet engine maker posted a 30% jump in annual core income led by increased air traffic.  
Crude rises on US tariffs delay   
Oil prices rose Friday, and were on course to end three weeks of decline on relief that President Trump did not immediately impose reciprocal tariffs as initially threatened.   
By 03:15 ET, the US crude futures (WTI) gained 0.5% to $71.62 a barrel, while the Brent contract rose 0.6% to $75.44 a barrel.  
Both benchmarks are on track for weekly gains of around 1% after Trump delayed imposing reciprocal tariffs against countries that place tariffs on U.S. goods to April.  
This delay provides more time to avoid a trade war, which would likely hit global economic activity, and thus the demand for energy.

[investing_us](https://www.investing.com/news/stock-market-news/european-stocks-slip-lower-after-strong-week-us-tariffs-ukraine-peace-in-focus-3869765)
