---
title: "Singapore launches M&OE plan to lead Asia-Pacific offshore renewables"
date: "2025-02-14 10:01:12"
summary: "Objective includes contributing to 50GW of offshore renewable energy projects globally.Minister Tan See Leng announced the launching of The Marine &amp; Offshore Energy (M&amp;OE) Industry Plan to position Singapore as the Asia-Pacific hub for offshore renewables and maritime decarbonisation.The plan is crucial for the industry to remain relevant amidst the..."
categories:
  - "sbr"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "sbr"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

**Objective includes contributing to 50GW of offshore renewable energy projects globally.**

Minister Tan See Leng announced the launching of The Marine & Offshore Energy (M&OE) Industry Plan to position Singapore as the Asia-Pacific hub for offshore renewables and maritime decarbonisation.

The plan is crucial for the industry to remain relevant amidst the global energy transition and seize growth opportunities in sustainable energy.

Key objectives have been set for 2030, including contributing to 50GW of offshore renewable energy projects globally and achieving 250 kilotons of annual carbon emission reductions through new builds and decarbonisation solutions.

Additionally, the plan focuses on enhancing the local workforce by creating and redesigning 1,000 jobs in [offshore](https://sbr.com.sg/shipping-marine/news/strategic-marine-commissions-three-new-offshore-supply-vessels) renewables, sustainability, digitalisation, and advanced manufacturing, while targeting a 5% annual productivity growth.

To achieve these ambitious targets, the plan outlines a three-pronged strategy. First, companies are encouraged to diversify into green opportunities through international partnerships such as those with the Global Wind Energy Council and EnterpriseSG.

Second, businesses are urged to scale internationally and build a strong “Made in Singapore” identity by participating in global trade shows and business missions.

Lastly, the plan emphasizes transformation through digitalisation, sustainability, and workforce development, supported by ASMI and Workforce Singapore.

[sbr](https://sbr.com.sg/shipping-marine/news/singapore-launches-moe-plan-lead-asia-pacific-offshore-renewables)
