---
title: "Keppel core earnings to see 8% CAGR in next two years: DBS"
date: "2025-02-07 13:05:46"
summary: "This is due to expanding funds under management.DBS Group Research said that Keppel Ltd. is projected to see a compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of 8% for core earnings, excluding legacy O&amp;M and discontinued operations, over the next two years.This would be largely driven by expanding funds under management (FUM)..."
categories:
  - "sbr"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "sbr"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

**This is due to expanding funds under management.**

DBS Group Research said that Keppel Ltd. is projected to see a compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of 8% for core earnings, excluding legacy O&M and discontinued operations, over the next two years.

This would be largely driven by expanding funds under management (FUM) in asset management.

FUM, at $88b as of the end-2024, is set to reach the $100b target ahead of the 2026 timeline, whilst Keppel aims to further grow this to $200b by 2030.

[Keppel’s FY 2024 net profit](https://sbr.com.sg/building-engineering/news/keppels-fy2024-net-profit-rises-5-yoy-106b), excluding legacy O&M and discontinued operations, grew by 5% year-on-year (YoY) to $1.06b, 4% ahead of DBS’s estimate.

This was partly aided by higher revaluation gains, which offset the weaker real estate development business.

The infrastructure segment remains the biggest earnings contributor, with $673m in net profit, accounting for 63% of group profits.

The real estate segment was weaker than expected, with net profit decreasing by 3% YoY to $306m, dragged by the development business.

DBS also stated that it is worth noting that asset management fees grew 54% YoY to $436m, driven by an approximate 60% increase in FUM to $88b, following the Aermont acquisition.

Moreover, the infrastructure segment is expected to continue delivering steady earnings, with approximately 70% of its total generation capacity contracted for at least three years.

[sbr](https://sbr.com.sg/building-engineering/news/keppel-core-earnings-see-8-cagr-in-next-two-years-dbs)
