---
title: "DBS names new group COO, group audit head"
date: "2025-02-13 11:25:51"
summary: "Jimmy Ng, current group head of operations, will retire and become a senior advisor for AI.DBS has appointed a new group chief operating officer (COO) and group audit head.Derrick Goh will assume the newly-created role of Group COO. He is tasked with overseeing both operations and the transformation group, and..."
categories:
  - "sbr"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "sbr"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

**Jimmy Ng, current group head of operations, will retire and become a senior advisor for AI.**

[DBS](https://asianbankingandfinance.net/company/dbs) has appointed a new group chief operating officer (COO) and group audit head.

Derrick Goh will assume the newly-created role of Group COO. He is tasked with overseeing both operations and the transformation group, and will join the group executive committee.

Koh Kar Siong, meanwhile, will take over Goh’s present role as Group Audit Head. Koh will also be a member of the group management committee. Koh is currently the Group Head of Corporate and SME Banking.

Jimmy Ng, group head of operations, will retire from executive duties effective 1 July 2025.

Ng will then be appointed senior advisor for the bank’s artificial intelligence efforts until 31 December 2025.

Goh has been with DBS since 2008. Prior to heading group audit in 2018, he led the regional Treasures and Treasures Private Client wealth management business.

Before that, Goh was head of POSB and Consumer Banking Group (CBG) Distribution in Singapore.

His other roles in DBS include being regional COO and chief financial officer of Institutional Banking Group (IBG), as well as head of Finance, Group Planning and Analytics.

Koh, meanwhile, joined DBS in 2003. Prior to his current role, he was head of SME Banking in Singapore.

Koh has held various roles in CBG and Wealth Management, including being head of POSB and CBG Distribution in Singapore, as well as head of CBG in China.

[sbr](https://sbr.com.sg/news/dbs-names-new-group-coo-group-audit-head)
