---
title: "Shopee launches international platform to boost Singapore sellers"
date: "2025-02-10 05:30:51"
summary: "It helps local sellers expand into Malaysia and Thailand at no extra cost.Shopee has officially launched the Shopee International Platform (SIP) in Singapore with the support of Enterprise Singapore (EnterpriseSG).The platform helps local sellers expand into regional markets like Malaysia and Thailand without additional costs.During the pilot phase, over 8,000..."
categories:
  - "sbr"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "sbr"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

**It helps local sellers expand into Malaysia and Thailand at no extra cost.**

[Shopee](https://retailasia.com/e-commerce/news/shopee-and-youtube-launch-new-e-commerce-partnership-in-southeast-asia) has officially launched the Shopee International Platform (SIP) in Singapore with the support of Enterprise Singapore (EnterpriseSG).

The platform helps local sellers expand into regional markets like Malaysia and Thailand without additional costs.

During the pilot phase, over 8,000 [Singapore](https://retailasia.com/stores/exclusive/singapores-in-store-cafes-may-soon-reach-their-limit) sellers joined SIP, resulting in an eightfold increase in orders and gross merchandise value over three months.

Key features of SIP include seamless market expansion, streamlined fulfillment with Shopee handling international shipping and customer support, and guided onboarding through direct invitations.

Shopee Singapore Director Chua Kel Jin said the programme allows sellers to reach a wider consumer base whilst simplifying operations, with Shopee handling logistics and support. “With the support of EnterpriseSG, we’ve helped our local sellers reach a broader consumer base, and enabled them to showcase Singaporean sellers’ products to our neighbouring markets."

EnterpriseSG Managing Director Cindy Khoo also cited the importance of diversifying revenue streams, stating that SIP provides an affordable way for businesses to tap into growing regional markets.

“The SIP is starting with Malaysia and Thailand, which are two of the fastest growing consumer markets and digital economies in the Southeast Asia region, and we hope it continues to grow,” he noted.

SIP will also expand to the Philippines, offering sellers access to more customers. Sellers will continue to enjoy free cross-border logistics, secure payment solutions, and customer service support.

High-performing sellers will also gain access to new features, allowing them to better control their strategies in Malaysia by curating product selections, setting competitive prices, and managing promotions.

Local businesses have already seen success with SIP. Global Pet Company expanded its reach without the need for physical retail costs, whilst Candy Cottage leveraged the platform to introduce its UK and European confectionery products to Malaysia.

[sbr](https://sbr.com.sg/news/shopee-launches-international-platform-boost-singapore-sellers)
