---
title: "Bukit Timah Plaza unit up for sale for $9.8m"
date: "2025-02-13 14:41:02"
summary: "It has a total strata area of approximately 3,391 square feet.A prime restaurant-approved strata unit located in Bukit Timah Plaza’s basement is up for sale for $9.8m via an Expression of Interest closing on 19 March 2025, according to CBRE.Facing the main central plaza of the complex, it has a..."
categories:
  - "sbr"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "sbr"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

**It has a total strata area of approximately 3,391 square feet.**

A prime restaurant-approved strata unit located in Bukit Timah Plaza’s basement is up for sale for $9.8m via an Expression of Interest closing on 19 March 2025, according to [CBRE](https://It has a total strata area of approximately 3,391 square feet.  A prime restaurant-approved strata unit located in Bukit Timah Plaza’s basement is up for sale for $9.8m via an Expression of Interest closing on 19 March 2025, according to CBRE  Facing the main central plaza of the complex, it has a 20-metre-wide frontage with a total strata area of approximately 3,391 square feet.  The plaza is surrounded by densely populated residential enclaves and is near several educational institutions Singapore Institute of Technology (SIT) and the Singapore Institute of Management (SIM).   The asset was previously put up for sale at $11 million in Q3 2022. For this sale exercise, the price has been reduced which translates to $2,890 per square foot.   The pricing is in line with the last two transactions located on Basement 2 of Bukit Timah Plaza which were sold at $3,000 psf and $2,973 psf in 2022.   Foreigners can purchase with no Additional Buyer’s Stamp Duty or Seller’s Stamp Duty imposed on the commercial property transaction.).

Facing the main central plaza of the complex, it has a 20-metre-wide frontage with a total strata area of approximately 3,391 square feet.

The plaza is surrounded by densely populated residential enclaves. It is also near several educational institutions, the Singapore Institute of Technology and the Singapore Institute of Management.

The asset was previously put up for sale at $11 million in Q3 2022. For this sale exercise, the price has been reduced to $2,890 per square foot.

The pricing is in line with the last two transactions located on Basement 2 of Bukit Timah Plaza which were sold at $3,000 psf and $2,973 psf in 2022.

Foreigners can purchase with no Additional Buyer’s Stamp Duty or Seller’s Stamp Duty imposed on the commercial property transaction.

[sbr](https://sbr.com.sg/commercial-property/news/bukit-timah-plaza-unit-sale-98m)
