---
title: "OSIM boosts business transparency following CCCS flags"
date: "2025-02-14 06:21:41"
summary: "OSIM was flagged for lack of product disclosure and misleading product information and prices.OSIM International (OSIM) made changes to its business practices after the Competition and Consumer Commission of Singapore (CCCS) flagged them for transparency issues.OSIM removed the “Stanford Medicine” logo from its promotional materials. CCCS said the logo could..."
categories:
  - "sbr"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "sbr"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

**OSIM was flagged for lack of product disclosure and misleading product information and prices.**

OSIM International (OSIM) made changes to its business practices after the [Competition and Consumer Commission of Singapore (CCCS)](https://sbr.com.sg/markets-investing/news/cccs-approves-propertyguru-acquisition-hedychium) flagged them for transparency issues.

OSIM removed the “Stanford Medicine” logo from its promotional materials. CCCS said the logo could mislead consumers into thinking the product is endorsed by institutions associated with the logo when, in fact, only a medical consultant who lectured at the Stanford University School of Medicine endorsed the technology used in the product.

The company also removed the word “Certified” from the “Conformité Européenne” mark on its products. CCCS said the use of the term could mislead consumers into thinking the products were certified by an authority when the mark is self-declared by manufacturers asserting that their product meets relevant European legal requirements.

In addition, OSIM provided greater disclosure of product suitability information on its website and instructed its sales representatives to remind customers about product suitability before purchase.

This follows CCCS concerns over OSIM’s lack of pre-purchase disclosure regarding product suitability for individuals with specific health or medical conditions, as such information was only available in the product manuals inside the packaging.

“Coupled with OSIM’s policy to preclude refunds once the packaging is opened, affected consumers might not be able to obtain refunds even if they only discover the unsuitability of the product after purchase,” CCCS said.

Lastly, CCCS noted that OSIM’s “usual” prices, presented alongside promotional prices for several products, were not genuinely usual because they were not prices offered to retail customers for a significant period before the promotion. OSIM has since ensured that its promotions reflect actual discounts.

[sbr](https://sbr.com.sg/retail/news/osim-boosts-business-transparency-following-cccs-flags)
