---
title: "Citi eyes 10% increase in social finance funding in Asia"
date: "2025-02-13 12:31:07"
summary: "Over $2b in social finance transactions were raised in Asia in 2024.Citi expects social finance funding in Asia to increase by 10% in 2025.Such types of financings include social trade loans, securitizations, co-financing partnerships with development agencies, term loans, and revolving working capital facilities, as well as initial public offerings..."
categories:
  - "sbr"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "sbr"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

**Over $2b in social finance transactions were raised in Asia in 2024.**

[Citi](https://asianbankingandfinance.net/company/citi) expects social finance funding in Asia to increase by 10% in 2025.

Such types of financings include social trade loans, securitizations, co-financing partnerships with development agencies, term loans, and revolving working capital facilities, as well as initial public offerings (IPOs).

"The pipeline is across markets, products, and different sectors. We are also seeing increasing investor demand for access to invest in social finance, and it is increasingly becoming a key asset class," said Jorge Rubio Nava, Global Head of Social Finance at Citi.

Citi’s social finance transactions raised over US$2b across Asia. The bank also led 76 transactions in APAC across 9 countries— Bangladesh, China, India, Indonesia, Malaysia, the Philippines, Singapore, Thailand, and Vietnam.

In total, Citi mobilized over $2.4b funds, over 50% of the bank's total transactions and more than 40% of total funds, making it the largest region globally for Citi for social finance financings.

These transactions included areas across microfinance, food security and sustainable agriculture systems, healthcare, education, infrastructure and digital connectivity, and affordable housing for underserved and low-income communities.

Nava expressed confidence that Citi can grow even further in 2025.

[sbr](https://sbr.com.sg/news/citi-eyes-10-increase-in-social-finance-funding-in-asia)
