---
title: "Keppel completes 33-storey commercial tower in Tanjong Pagar"
date: "2025-02-11 16:25:52"
summary: "The group also secured its anchor tennant.Keppel Ltd announced the completion of the 33-storey commercial tower Keppel South Central located in the heart of Tanjong Pagar and at the gateway to the Greater Southern Waterfront.The group said it also secured a leading financial services group as its first anchor tenant.Nearly..."
categories:
  - "sbr"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "sbr"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

**The group also secured its anchor tennant.**

Keppel Ltd announced the completion of the 33-storey commercial tower Keppel South Central located in the heart of Tanjong Pagar and at the gateway to the Greater Southern Waterfront.

The group said it also secured a leading financial services group as its first anchor tenant.

Nearly 50% of the office space and retail units at Keppel South Central are either committed or being actively negotiated.

Keppel South Central is located on Hoe Chiang Road. It is within walking distance of Tanjong Pagar MRT station and the future Prince Edward Road MRT station, set to open on the Circle Line in 2026. The office tower is part of efforts to revitalise Tanjong Pagar, offering premium workspaces and contributing to the transformation of Singapore’s Central Business District into a mixed-use hub.

The tower was designed by global architecture firm NBBJ and spans approximately 650,000 square feet and incorporates energy-efficient features. The building includes high-performance façade systems to reduce solar heat gain, smart building management systems, and renewable energy sources. Keppel also provides pre-fitted and customised spaces to accommodate tenant needs.

The development aligns with Keppel’s focus on sustainable urban renewal and aims to support tenants in meeting their sustainability targets.

[sbr](https://sbr.com.sg/commercial-property/news/keppel-completes-33-storey-commercial-tower-in-tanjong-pagar)
