---
title: "EPA administrator, Trump special envoy join LA mayor to evaluate fire recovery"
date: "2025-02-07 08:36:02"
summary: "const ir_script = document.createElement('script'); const ir_version = new Date().valueOf(); ir_script.src = 'https://instaread.co/js/instaread.thehill.js?version=' + ir_version; ir_script.setAttribute(\"type\", \"text/javascript\"); ir_script.setAttribute(\"async\", true); (document.getElementsByTagName('body')[0] || document.getElementsByTagName('head')[0]).appendChild(ir_script); The Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Lee Zeldin, President Trump’s envoy for special missions Richard Grenell, and other federal and state officials joined Los Angeles Mayor Karen Bass (D) in..."
categories:
  - "thehill"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "thehill"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Lee Zeldin, President Trump’s envoy for special missions Richard Grenell, and other federal and state officials joined Los Angeles Mayor Karen Bass (D) in their visit to the Palisades to evaluate the fire recovery and debris removal.

The EPA, as part of the debris removal process, has been removing hazardous materials in the area. The trio were joined during the Thursday visit by California Environmental Protection Agency Secretary Yana Garcia, Major General Jason E. Kelly and Federal Emergency Management Agency Region 9 Administrator Bob Fenton, according to Bass’ office.

“I’m grateful to have the support of our federal partners as we work urgently to rebuild the Palisades,” Bass said in a statement. “The EPA is working to complete Phase 1 of the debris removal process while the City is working to expedite permitting processes and cutting red tape so Angelenos can rebuild as quickly as possible. We will get through this together.”

The deadly and destructive fires ravaged the Los Angeles area last month, burning tens of thousands of acres and displacing thousands of residents.

Two of the largest fires in the region, the Palisades Fire and the Eaton Fire, were fully contained last Friday, [according](https://thehill.com/policy/energy-environment/5120558-california-largest-wildfires-fully-contained/) to local officials. The Palisades Fire burned over 23,000 acres and killed at least 12 people, according to the Los Angeles County Medical Examiner’s Office. The total death toll, for now, is 29.

Zeldin, a former House lawmaker who represented New York’s 1st Congressional District, was [sworn in](https://www.epa.gov/newsreleases/lee-m-zeldin-sworn-17th-epa-administrator) as EPA head just over a week ago. Grenell, who served as acting director of national intelligence during Trump’s first term, visited Venezuela last week and spoke with the country’s leader Nicolás Maduro. After the meeting, six Americans [were freed](https://thehill.com/policy/international/5120173-venezuela-hostages-trump-administration/).

“We are wheels up and headed home with these 6 American citizens. They just spoke to @realDonaldTrump and they couldn’t stop thanking him,” Grenell wrote last week on X.

On Wednesday, California Gov. Gavin Newsom (D) met with Trump in Washington. The duo, who have gone back-and-forth in the last few weeks of the state’s response to the California blazes, disagree over conditioning aid to the Golden State.

Separately, former Vice President Harris on Thursday [toured Westwood](https://x.com/LindseyPHorvath/status/1887603842784895408), one of the areas that was ravaged by the Palisades Fire. She toured Altadena in January after officially leaving office.

[thehill](https://thehill.com/homenews/state-watch/5131776-lee-zeldin-richard-grenell-karen-bass-fire-recovery/)
