---
title: "Jewish lawmakers form official House caucus for first time"
date: "2025-02-07 08:05:59"
summary: "const ir_script = document.createElement('script'); const ir_version = new Date().valueOf(); ir_script.src = 'https://instaread.co/js/instaread.thehill.js?version=' + ir_version; ir_script.setAttribute(\"type\", \"text/javascript\"); ir_script.setAttribute(\"async\", true); (document.getElementsByTagName('body')[0] || document.getElementsByTagName('head')[0]).appendChild(ir_script); Reps. Jerrold Nadler (D-N.Y.) and Debbie Wasserman Schultz (D-Fla.) lauded the creation of the Congressional Jewish Caucus in a Thursday press release outlining an official forum for Jewish lawmakers...."
categories:
  - "thehill"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "thehill"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Reps. Jerrold Nadler (D-N.Y.) and Debbie Wasserman Schultz (D-Fla.) lauded the creation of the Congressional Jewish Caucus in a Thursday press release outlining an official forum for Jewish lawmakers.

“In response to unprecedented rising antisemitism in the United States and the challenges the American Jewish community has faced in the wake of the horrific terrorist attacks of October 7th, the need for this Caucus is understandable,” Nadler, a founding co-chair, shared in a statement.

“I am confident this caucus will bring Jewish members together to strive to achieve unity not unanimity, and will be a productive forum to discuss issues of import to the American Jewish community.”

Rep. Brad Schneider (D-Ill.) will serve alongside Nadler as a co-chair.

“Education, understanding and strengthening relationships with other communities is critical to advancing Jewish community priorities,” founder Wasserman Schultz said of the new coalition.

“With antisemitism reaching record levels in the United States, it is more important than ever before that Jewish Members of Congress have a formal Caucus to represent the unique perspective of the Jewish American community.”

Schneider said the caucus was not just overdue but “essential.”

“This Caucus isn’t just overdue—it’s essential. I’m grateful to Debbie Wasserman Schultz for her leadership and honored to help lead it alongside my friend Jerry Nadler,” he shared in a statement.

[thehill](https://thehill.com/homenews/senate/5131716-jewish-lawmakers-form-official-house-caucus-for-first-time/)
