---
title: "Vance tapped to spearhead TikTok deal"
date: "2025-02-07 22:26:02"
summary: "Vice President Vance has been tapped alongside national security adviser Mike Waltz to oversee a potential sale of the popular app TikTok, a source familiar with the plans told The Hill. President Trump tasked Vance with taking the lead on a possible deal that could save the video sharing app..."
categories:
  - "thehill"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "thehill"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Vice President Vance has been tapped alongside national security adviser Mike Waltz to oversee a potential sale of the popular app TikTok, a source familiar with the plans told The Hill.

President Trump tasked Vance with taking the lead on a possible deal that could save the video sharing app from shutting down in the United States, Punchbowl News first reported.

Vance was a venture capitalist before he ran for the Senate and previously was [behind investments](https://www.wsj.com/articles/peter-thiel-j-d-vance-invest-in-rumble-video-platform-popular-on-political-right-11621447661) for platforms like the YouTube alternative Rumble.

Trump has [pushed to reach a deal](https://thehill.com/policy/technology/5113002-how-trump-turned-the-tiktok-ban-into-a-political-asset/) to keep TikTok active in the U.S. and attributes his popularity on the app to his support from young people in the 2024 race.

On Monday, the president directed Treasury Secretary Scott Bessent and Commerce secretary nominee Howard Lutnick to create [an American sovereign wealth fund](https://thehill.com/policy/technology/5123461-trump-sovereign-wealth-fund-tiktok/), suggesting it could partially own TikTok.

Trump also signed an executive order on his first day in office halting for 75 days the enforcement of the law that required TikTok’s China-based parent company, ByteDance, to divest itself of the app.

The ban on TikTok was set to go into effect the day before Trump was sworn in, after ByteDance failed to divest as required by a law passed by Congress last year and signed by former President Biden.

 
[Close](#sailthru-signup-widget)

Thank you for signing up!

Subscribe to more newsletters [here](http://nxslink.thehill.com/join/7aa/signup)


The latest in politics and policy.
Direct to your inbox.
Sign up for the Technology newsletter















Subscribe

[thehill](https://thehill.com/homenews/administration/5132358-jd-vance-mike-waltz-tiktok-deal/)
