---
title: "Top gainers and losers today: Stocks that moved the most on February 11"
date: "2025-02-11 18:15:44"
summary: "1/8 Apollo Hospitals Enterprises | CMP: Rs 6,314 | Shares plunged nearly 7 percent amid heavy trading volumes despite the company's better-than-expected Q3 numbers. 2/8 Elgi Equipments | CMP: Rs 539 | Shares tanked over 1.44 percent as investors dumped the stock following the company's disappointing Q3 performance, marked by..."
categories:
  - "moneycontrol"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "moneycontrol"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

![Apollo Hospitals Enterprises | CMP: Rs xxx | Shares plunged over x percent amid heavy trading volumes despite the company's better-than-expected Q3 numbers. As much as 10 lakh shares of the hospital major changed hands on the exchange, more than threefold the one-month daily traded average of three lakh shares.](//stat1.moneycontrol.com/mcnews//images/grey_bg.gif "Apollo Hospitals Enterprises | CMP: Rs xxx | Shares plunged over x percent amid heavy trading volumes despite the company's better-than-expected Q3 numbers. As much as 10 lakh shares of the hospital major changed hands on the exchange, more than threefold the one-month daily traded average of three lakh shares.")   1/8    Apollo Hospitals Enterprises | CMP: Rs 6,314 | Shares plunged nearly 7 percent amid heavy trading volumes despite the company's better-than-expected Q3 numbers. 

 ![Elgi Equipments | CMP: Es xxx | Shares tanked over 2 percent as investors dumped the stock folllowing the company's disappointing Q3 performance, marked by a fall in its net profit.The company's net profit for the December quarter fell 4 percent on year to Rs 80.58 crore, as against Rs 83.88 crore in the year ago period. The decline in the bottomline was despite a 3 percent rise in sales to Rs 847.59 crore, which grew from Rs 821.83 crore, a year ago.](//stat1.moneycontrol.com/mcnews//images/grey_bg.gif "Elgi Equipments | CMP: Es xxx | Shares tanked over 2 percent as investors dumped the stock folllowing the company's disappointing Q3 performance, marked by a fall in its net profit.The company's net profit for the December quarter fell 4 percent on year to Rs 80.58 crore, as against Rs 83.88 crore in the year ago period. The decline in the bottomline was despite a 3 percent rise in sales to Rs 847.59 crore, which grew from Rs 821.83 crore, a year ago.")   2/8    Elgi Equipments | CMP: Rs 539 | Shares tanked over 1.44 percent as investors dumped the stock following the company's disappointing Q3 performance, marked by a fall in its net profit. The company's net profit for the December quarter fell 4 percent on year to Rs 80.58 crore, as against Rs 83.88 crore in the year ago period. The decline in the bottom-line was despite a 3 percent rise in sales to Rs 847.59 crore, which grew from Rs 821.83 crore, a year ago.

 ![Info Edge India | CMP: Rs xxx | Shares slipped 3 percent after the value of the company's investments in Policybazaar parent--PB Fintech and food delivery aggregator--Zomato, took a sharp hit following the recent correction in the two stocks. Info Edge has a 19 percent stake in PB Fintech while it owns 13 percent equity in Zomato. Given that the two stocks have corrected around 30 percent each from their record highs, the valuation of Info Edge's stake in the two companies has eroded by a whopping Rs 17,000 crore from its peak.](//stat1.moneycontrol.com/mcnews//images/grey_bg.gif "Info Edge India | CMP: Rs xxx | Shares slipped 3 percent after the value of the company's investments in Policybazaar parent--PB Fintech and food delivery aggregator--Zomato, took a sharp hit following the recent correction in the two stocks. Info Edge has a 19 percent stake in PB Fintech while it owns 13 percent equity in Zomato. Given that the two stocks have corrected around 30 percent each from their record highs, the valuation of Info Edge's stake in the two companies has eroded by a whopping Rs 17,000 crore from its peak.")   3/8    Info Edge India | CMP: Rs 7519.25 | Shares slipped over 3 percent after the value of the company's investments in Policybazaar parent--PB Fintech and food delivery aggregator--Zomato, took a sharp hit following the recent correction in the two stocks. Info Edge has a 19 percent stake in PB Fintech while it owns 13 percent equity in Zomato. Given that the two stocks have corrected around 30 percent each from their record highs, the valuation of Info Edge's stake in the two companies has eroded by a whopping Rs 17,000 crore from its peak.

 ![Tilaknagar Industries | CMP: Rs xxx | Shares plunged xx percent after the Bombay High Court on February 7 dismissed the company's plea against other firms using its trademark brand names 'Mansion House' and 'Savoy Club' on their products. Tilaknagar Industries had filed the petition, alleging that Herman Jansen Beverages Nederland B.V. and others used its trademarked names on its alcoholic products to &quot;pass off their business and goods as and for those of Tilak Industries&quot;. The Bombay High Court has dismissed its petition on the same.](//stat1.moneycontrol.com/mcnews//images/grey_bg.gif "Tilaknagar Industries | CMP: Rs xxx | Shares plunged xx percent after the Bombay High Court on February 7 dismissed the company's plea against other firms using its trademark brand names 'Mansion House' and 'Savoy Club' on their products. Tilaknagar Industries had filed the petition, alleging that Herman Jansen Beverages Nederland B.V. and others used its trademarked names on its alcoholic products to &quot;pass off their business and goods as and for those of Tilak Industries&quot;. The Bombay High Court has dismissed its petition on the same.")   4/8    Tilaknagar Industries | CMP: Rs 279 | Shares plunged 5 percent after the Bombay High Court on February 7 dismissed the company's plea against other firms using its trademark brand names 'Mansion House' and 'Savoy Club' on their products. 

 ![Devyani International | CMP Rs xx | Shares of the operator of Pizza Hut tumbled 5 percent after the company reported a consolidated loss of Rs 49.2 lakh for the quarter that ended December 2024, a sharp reversal from a Rs 9.6 crore profit in the same period last year. This decline came despite a 53 percent surge in revenue from operations to Rs 1,294 crore. A key factor was a Rs 2.9 crore foreign exchange loss, contrasting with a Rs 3 crore forex gain in the year-ago quarter.](//stat1.moneycontrol.com/mcnews//images/grey_bg.gif "Devyani International | CMP Rs xx | Shares of the operator of Pizza Hut tumbled 5 percent after the company reported a consolidated loss of Rs 49.2 lakh for the quarter that ended December 2024, a sharp reversal from a Rs 9.6 crore profit in the same period last year. This decline came despite a 53 percent surge in revenue from operations to Rs 1,294 crore. A key factor was a Rs 2.9 crore foreign exchange loss, contrasting with a Rs 3 crore forex gain in the year-ago quarter.")   5/8    Devyani International | CMP Rs 170 | Shares of the operator of Pizza Hut tumbled 5 percent after the company reported a consolidated loss of Rs 49.2 lakh for the quarter that ended December 2024, a sharp reversal from a Rs 9.6 crore profit in the same period last year. This decline came despite a 53 percent surge in revenue from operations to Rs 1,294 crore. A key factor was a Rs 2.9 crore foreign exchange loss, contrasting with a Rs 3 crore forex gain in the year-ago quarter.

 ![Juniper Hotels | CMP Rs xx | Shares rose xx percent after it reported a strong earnings performance for Q3, with net profit surging to Rs 32.5 crore, a sharp rise from Rs 3.5 crore in the year-ago period. Revenue grew 7 percent to Rs 252.5 crore from Rs 236.3 crore last year. However, EBITDA declined 4 percent to Rs 92.8 crore, compared to Rs 96.6 crore a year earlier, with margins contracting to 36.8 percent from 40.9 percent.](//stat1.moneycontrol.com/mcnews//images/grey_bg.gif "Juniper Hotels | CMP Rs xx | Shares rose xx percent after it reported a strong earnings performance for Q3, with net profit surging to Rs 32.5 crore, a sharp rise from Rs 3.5 crore in the year-ago period. Revenue grew 7 percent to Rs 252.5 crore from Rs 236.3 crore last year. However, EBITDA declined 4 percent to Rs 92.8 crore, compared to Rs 96.6 crore a year earlier, with margins contracting to 36.8 percent from 40.9 percent.")   6/8    Juniper Hotels | CMP Rs 264 | Shares dropped 2.10 percent after it reported a strong earnings performance for Q3, with net profit surging to Rs 32.5 crore, a sharp rise from Rs 3.5 crore in the year-ago period. Revenue grew 7 percent to Rs 252.5 crore from Rs 236.3 crore last year. However, EBITDA declined 4 percent to Rs 92.8 crore, compared to Rs 96.6 crore a year earlier, with margins contracting to 36.8 percent from 40.9 percent.

 ![BLS E-Services | CMP Rs xx | Shares rose following solid Q3 show. The company’s Q3 FY25 revenue rose 17.1 percent to Rs 512.85 crore, driven by global expansion and strategic partnerships in visa processing and citizen services. Net profit surged 46.7 percent to Rs 127.9 crore, reflecting strong cost management alongside revenue growth, while profit before tax rose to Rs 140.19 crore from Rs 90.99 crore.](//stat1.moneycontrol.com/mcnews//images/grey_bg.gif "BLS E-Services | CMP Rs xx | Shares rose following solid Q3 show. The company’s Q3 FY25 revenue rose 17.1 percent to Rs 512.85 crore, driven by global expansion and strategic partnerships in visa processing and citizen services. Net profit surged 46.7 percent to Rs 127.9 crore, reflecting strong cost management alongside revenue growth, while profit before tax rose to Rs 140.19 crore from Rs 90.99 crore.")   7/8    BLS E-Services | CMP Rs 180.19 | Shares dropped following solid Q3 show. The company’s Q3 FY25 revenue rose 17.1 percent to Rs 512.85 crore, driven by global expansion and strategic partnerships in visa processing and citizen services. Net profit surged 46.7 percent to Rs 127.9 crore, reflecting strong cost management alongside revenue growth, while profit before tax rose to Rs 140.19 crore from Rs 90.99 crore.

 ![Torrent Power | CMP: Rs XX | Shares of Torrent Power slipped as much as 4.2 percent to touch an intraday low of Rs 1,292 on February 11 after international brokerage Morgan Stanley downgraded the stock to 'equal-weight' from 'overweight' and also slashed the target price following bleak growth prospects.](//stat1.moneycontrol.com/mcnews//images/grey_bg.gif "Torrent Power | CMP: Rs XX | Shares of Torrent Power slipped as much as 4.2 percent to touch an intraday low of Rs 1,292 on February 11 after international brokerage Morgan Stanley downgraded the stock to 'equal-weight' from 'overweight' and also slashed the target price following bleak growth prospects.")   8/8    Torrent Power | CMP: Rs 1,280 | Shares of Torrent Power slipped as much as 5 percent to touch an intraday low of Rs 1,292 on February 11 after international brokerage Morgan Stanley downgraded the stock to 'equal-weight' from 'overweight' and also slashed the target price following bleak growth prospects.

[moneycontrol](https://www.moneycontrol.com/news/photos/business/markets/top-gainers-and-losers-today-stocks-that-moved-the-most-on-february-11-12937082.html)
