---
title: "Trump’s Crypto Policy Outlook: Potential Impact on the Crypto Ecosystem"
date: "2025-02-07 11:29:14"
summary: "Source: Daoshuo BlockchainAfter Trump came to power, the policies he might introduce in terms of crypto assets have always been the focus of the entire crypto ecosystem. Recently, the crypto czar he appointed also officially made a series of remarks. Judging from these remarks, many of the crypto policies he..."
categories:
  - "coinlive_articles"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "coinlive_articles"
menu: ""
thumbnail: "https://image.coinlive.com/cryptotwits-static/bf69c587919fa04efb3ff7ba3b76b675.jpg"
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Source: Daoshuo Blockchain

After Trump came to power, the policies he might introduce in terms of crypto assets have always been the focus of the entire crypto ecosystem. Recently, the crypto czar he appointed also officially made a series of remarks. Judging from these remarks, many of the crypto policies he promised before the election are likely to be introduced one after another.

If it were just an ordinary politician, we would focus on his policies and remarks.

But as a politician who does not play by the rules, he also has his own crypto team that specializes in operating projects;

His team also personally operates and lays out multiple crypto projects;

His team is still constantly operating and trading various crypto assets.

Therefore, the actions of such a politician in the crypto ecosystem have made people imagine and speculate.

For example, many people have been betting on the so-called "American currency", that is, any crypto asset that has a close relationship with the United States may be the beneficiary of Trump's crypto policy.

More specifically, many people are keeping a close eye on the crypto assets bought, sold and held by his WLFI team, believing that the "American currency" in his assets is likely to directly benefit from future policies.

I have always been very skeptical of this view.

Since last year, I have been very supportive of Trump's general direction and overall attitude towards the crypto ecosystem. Because the development and trend of the crypto ecosystem cannot be stopped or reversed by any organization or individual.

No matter what Trump considers, what ideas, and what interests he has, as the leader of the United States, he dares to take this step with great fanfare, which has a great driving force for accelerating the development of the crypto ecosystem around the world.

It is no exaggeration to predict that after the introduction of his policies, under the demonstration effect of the United States, the pace of the global society entering the crypto ecosystem will be greatly accelerated.

Still sitting there as an ostrich and still choosing to turn a blind eye will only miss the historical opportunity again and be abandoned by the world trend again.

However, when it comes to his policies, we need to examine them one by one.

I believe that there will be policies that are beneficial to the entire crypto ecosystem, and of course there may be some controversial and biased policies.

If there are policies like the latter, it depends on what he is biased towards. If he is biased towards creating a more open and relaxed environment than any other country, which is more beneficial to all builders and participants, then it couldn't be better.

But if there are projects or assets that specifically favor American teams, will these projects and assets really benefit?

I think even if they can benefit, it will only benefit in the short term, and whether they can benefit in the long term depends on the project itself.

Projects that can benefit in the long term must be projects and assets recognized by different interests, different teams, and different institutions around the world.

And such an asset that can be accepted by everyone and can get the highest consensus must be as independent of any centralized institution as possible and as neutral as possible to any interest group.

WLFI also holds some TRON tokens among its assets. Does this mean that it will specifically introduce crypto policies that are favorable to TRON and TRON?

Even if it does, will European governments adopt TRON on a large scale? Will European institutions invest in TRON tokens on a large scale?

I dare not imagine it.

The reason why gold has been recognized as a value storage target by people of different races and regions around the world for thousands of years is because of its neutrality and lack of artificial credit endorsement.

It is produced in the process of nuclear fusion inside stars. All its properties are set by nature, and it is a species given to humans by nature.

These properties will not change because of the manipulation of a certain government or a certain interest group.

Because of this, no matter how it has been regulated or banned in history, even if the US government has issued a decree prohibiting private holdings of gold, it still cannot stop people's enthusiasm for holding and chasing.

Crypto assets are not produced by nature, but invented and created by humans. They are naturally injected with human genes. Therefore, it needs to achieve a higher consensus and condense stronger value, and it needs to be more decentralized, more censorship-resistant, more neutral, and more independent.

Some time ago, the closure of a "blockchain" developed and deployed by an exchange we were once familiar with caused people in the circle to sigh.

Many people sighed that the development of that exchange has been declining since it was changed hands, but what I care more about is that the closure of that "blockchain" proves that it is not a blockchain at all, but a traditional distributed service system.

If it can be shut down artificially, it is still called a blockchain?

Such a "blockchain" is a game or entertainment, and it is harmless to play and participate. But can we imagine governments and institutions on all continents in the world deploying applications on such a blockchain, and even issuing assets?

By the same token, the United States and the world now have such a politician who holds great power, acts unpredictably, and dares to risk everything. While I am paying attention to the positive impact his policies may have on the crypto ecosystem, I will be extremely vigilant about the side effects his words and deeds and policies may have on the crypto ecosystem:

For example, will he directly intervene in the development of crypto projects?

For another example, what means might he use to intervene in crypto projects? And to what extent?

If there is a platform that his policies can fully control, other countries and institutions dare to generally release their own projects on it? Dare to buy such platform assets with confidence?

Several years ago, Vitalik thought about the following questions:

If a government forcibly intervenes in Ethereum, will the operation of Ethereum be affected?

If humans usher in the Third World War, will the operation of Ethereum be affected?

How to positively resist these possible negative effects?

I think there is only one answer, which is still my unchanged point of view:

In terms of operation, it is decentralized as much as possible, censorship-resistant as much as possible, and neutral to various interest groups as much as possible.

Only such a platform and such assets can make global governments, global institutions, and all mankind embrace crypto assets and allow human civilization to move from off-chain to on-chain.

So even if there are biased projects in his policies, such projects must remain neutral as much as possible and avoid negative interference from him as much as possible if they want to develop in the long term and be accepted by the world.

The fundamental reason why Mr. Buffett believes in the US stock market is the rule of law and the market economy.

In my opinion, the core of these two points is that the United States has created a fair, free and open environment that allows all kinds of companies to grow freely in this environment, rather than taking care of a certain type of project and giving that type of project privileges and care.

No matter how dazzling the projects and assets that are protected by privileges and care may seem in the short term, they will be abandoned and eliminated by history in the long run.

[coinlive_articles](https://www.coinlive.com/news/trump-s-crypto-policy-outlook-potential-impact-on-the-crypto-ecosystem)
