---
title: "AI Agent track continues to fall, future operation guide"
date: "2025-02-07 19:39:07"
summary: "Author: HaotianThe whole AI Agent track has been falling like a dark cloud over a city, making people feel heartbroken and desperate to the point of being unable to breathe. Everyone wants to know, what happened? It's helpless that no one can answer this question. Here we only analyze the..."
categories:
  - "coinlive_articles"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "coinlive_articles"
menu: ""
thumbnail: "https://image.coinlive.com/cryptotwits-static/60ddfcf3a6391854351a8a1a969d23d4.jpg"
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Author: Haotian

The whole AI Agent track has been falling like a dark cloud over a city, making people feel heartbroken and desperate to the point of being unable to breathe. Everyone wants to know, what happened? It's helpless that no one can answer this question. Here we only analyze the unfavorable factors currently facing the AI ​​Agent track, as well as several Holder's future operation guides for reference:

Unfavorable factors:
--------------------

1) The disruption and bloodsucking of $TRUMP coins broke the rhythm of AI Agent's narrative evolution, which is undoubtedly the biggest external factor. Due to the lack of liquidity on the chain itself and the blocking of CEX, after a large number of celebrity MEME coins appeared, most people would Fomo sell their AI Agent holdings to chase new coins. This cycle destroyed the stable development environment of AI Agent;

2) The short-term "fast pass" MEME asset issuance method has lost its value anchor, which is an internal factor that cannot be ignored. On the one hand, the AI ​​Agent narrative has evolved too quickly. In just three months, it has gone from pure AI MEME to single AI, framework standards, DeFai, MetAiverse, GameFai and other subdivided tracks. There is not enough time to build technical value support and implement it;

On the other hand, under the premise of no value support hype, "fast pass flow" has become the inevitable path for most projects. Just because a Github Repo and vision statement provided by Dev can be fast-passed to 50m-300m? This makes the project lose its real value judgment and can only be operated based on some PVP one or two paragraphs of methodology. In the end, many good projects are facing the dilemma of being smashed to pieces after the speed pass. At this time, it is probably difficult to rely on Dev to promote it; of course, there are also the overall market downturn under macro factors, the collective withdrawal of liquidity of high-risk preference assets on the chain, etc. In short, whether it is external or internal factors, the new AI infrastructure market that was originally expected to have PVE value judgment standards has become an indifferent PVP Gambling market. The current despair, suffering and helplessness are proving all this. Reference guide for future market operations: After clarifying the overall background, it should be clear that it is meaningless to worry about whether the AI ​​Agent track will return to zero. Because good PVE targets will only "lynch" in the short term due to the pressure of the macro environment, and bad PVP targets may also shuffle out a "resurrection" from the many assets on the verge of zeroing. So, what should we do next?

1) Find good targets with value anchoring support, yes, it is to find gold in the garbage dump. In the upward trend, everyone is engaged in fast-flow flow, and junk projects may also be hyped up to a height by the conspiracy group, which will cover the inherent brilliance of good assets, but in the downward trend, the possibility of value targets "emerging" is greater, for example: find projects that are still building and issuing benefits in a big crash environment, find good projects that Dev can continue to innovate regardless of the secondary passive environment, find projects whose on-chain currency addresses are still growing under continuous negative declines, etc.

2) Organize your own portfolio, decisively give up the fantasy of junk assets, and change positions to value coins. It is important to understand that even if AI Agent makes another strong comeback, some junk assets will definitely become abandoned, and only projects with value support can make a comeback. It is just right to take advantage of the plunge to reduce the scope of your holdings and focus your bullets on some high-value assets, which at least has the possibility of recovering your investment. For details, please refer to the previously shared logic of sub-positioning

3) Stop Fomo's new fast-pass flow project. When the entire track is going down, what reason do retail investors have to believe that the value of a project that comes up with a fast pass of hundreds of millions is rational? What's more, there is not much difference between the fast-pass project on the strong chain and the high FDV VC coin projects on the exchange. The big opportunity on the chain refers to the opportunity to discover high-quality Alpha projects one step ahead of others. The risk of Fomo entering the market is more dangerous than the secondary market.

4) Sit and wait, wait for the flowers to bloom, the significance of the AI ​​Agent track to Crypto is long-lasting and eternal, and the big trend cannot be changed. I have repeated my views many times in my previous articles, so I won't go into details. If you can do 1, 2, and 3, all you need to do is wait for the opportunity.

[coinlive_articles](https://www.coinlive.com/news/ai-agent-track-continues-to-fall-future-operation-guide)
