---
title: "Coldplay Premieres the Music Video for 'New Music Video', Featuring Beautiful Views Of Singapore"
date: "2025-02-07 18:22:39"
summary: "British band Coldplay released a 30 second trailer for their new music video, Man In The Moon, which was shot at several iconic locations in Singapore, including Jewel Changi Airport, People's Park Complex in Chinatown, Gardens by the Bay, and a performance scene set against the stunning Marina Bay skyline.It..."
categories:
  - "coinlive_articles"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "coinlive_articles"
menu: ""
thumbnail: "https://image.coinlive.com/cryptotwits-static/bbb5a4788e1c818e54ffc17361141005.png"
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

British band Coldplay released a 30 second trailer for their new music video, Man In The Moon, which was shot at several iconic locations in Singapore, including Jewel Changi Airport, People's Park Complex in Chinatown, Gardens by the Bay, and a performance scene set against the stunning Marina Bay skyline.

It also captures the essence of everyday life in heartland areas, including an HDB estate in MacPherson and Mountain Coffee in Geylang.

> Coming tomorrow, the official video for Man in The Moon (from the Full Moon Edition of Moon Music). [pic.twitter.com/ynfZnvbKeG](https://t.co/ynfZnvbKeG)
> 
> — Coldplay (@coldplay) [February 5, 2025](https://twitter.com/coldplay/status/1887181873002025062?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw)

Local personalities are also featured in the video, including visual artist Sam Lo, who is also known by her stage name Sticker Lady, who is shown spraying-paint in a mural at People's Park Complex in Chinatown. The music video is directed by Los Angeles-based director Ben Mork, and the video is part of a series of Singapore Tourism Board projects with global pop acts.

The full video is set to drop on today, as noted in the teaser. Additionally, the clip was shared on the VisitSingapore YouTube page on February 5, highlighting that the music video was “filmed in Singapore.”

The music video was filmed when the band was performing in Singapore during last year's Music of the Spheres World Tour.

Man In The Moon is featured on Moon Music (Full Moon Edition), the bonus edition of Coldplay’s 10th studio album, Moon Music (2024). The band recently wrapped up six sold-out shows at Singapore’s National Stadium as part of their Music of the Spheres World Tour.

Coldplay joins a growing list of global artists filming music videos in Singapore. In 2024, OneRepublic released a behind-the-scenes video about their track Singapore from Artificial Paradise (2024), and in 2021, Billie Eilish filmed live performance videos at Gardens by the Bay’s Cloud Forest.

[coinlive_articles](https://www.coinlive.com/news/coldplay-premieres-the-music-video-for-new-music-video-featuring)
