---
title: "Bioanalytical CRO, Veloxity Labs, and Aplos Analytics Partner to Transform Pharmacokinetic and Toxicokinetic Analysis"
date: "2025-02-13 01:55:24"
summary: "PEORIA, Ill. — [Peoria, IL; Feb 12, 2025] — Veloxity Labs, a bioanalytical contract research organization (CRO) specializing in accelerating therapeutic development, is proud to announce a partnership with Aplos Analytics. This collaboration brings groundbreaking enhancements to pharmacokinetic (PK) and toxicokinetic (TK) analysis, offering lightning-fast, highly accurate results in minutes.With..."
categories:
  - "biopharmadive"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "biopharmadive"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

**PEORIA, Ill. —** 

**[Peoria, IL; Feb 12, 2025] —**Veloxity Labs, a [bioanalytical contract research organization (CRO](http://www.veloxitylabs.com)) specializing in accelerating therapeutic development, is proud to announce a partnership with [Aplos Analytics](https://aplosanalytics.com/). This collaboration brings groundbreaking enhancements to pharmacokinetic (PK) and toxicokinetic (TK) analysis, offering lightning-fast, highly accurate results in minutes.

With the integration of Aplos NCA (Non-Compartmental Analysis) software, Veloxity’s clients can now streamline their PK/TK analysis workflow, reducing time spent on data formatting, importing, analysis and reporting from hours to just under five minutes. The result: quicker insights and more efficient project timelines.

"We’re excited to partner with Aplos Analytics to offer our clients a solution that combines speed, accuracy and security,” said Shane Needham, PhD, president and CEO of Veloxity Labs. "The Aplos NCA platform enables us to provide unmatched PK/TK analysis capabilities to help keep our clients moving at the speed of bioanalysis!"

**More Results, Less Time**  
In the competitive world of bioanalysis, time is of the essence. With Aplos NCA, Veloxity clients can dramatically accelerate their PK projects, bringing them from start to finish in record time with no sacrifice in quality or reliability.

**Accurate, Reliable Data**  
Speed is important, but so is precision. Veloxity’s integration of Aplos NCA ensures that clients not only benefit from faster results but also from exceptionally accurate, reliable PK/TK data. This allows researchers and scientists to make informed decisions without the long delays traditionally associated with data analysis.

**Security You Can Trust**  
Veloxity and Aplos Analytics understand that your data is valuable and confidential. That’s why they’ve implemented integrated security protocols and end-to-end encryption to protect all data and results. From the moment data is entered to the delivery of the final report, you can trust that your information is secure, with access strictly controlled by the highest security standards.

"We’re excited to work with Veloxity Labs to support their advancements in PK and TK analysis. The ability to deliver PK/TK parameter results simultaneously with bioanalytical results represents a new era for bioanalytical laboratory providers,” commented Nathan Teuscher, founder and president of Aplos Analytics. “This collaboration reflects our shared commitment to helping researchers accelerate their projects while maintaining the highest standards of data integrity and security. Together, we’re empowering scientists to make confident, data-driven decisions—faster, safer and with greater impact."

For more information about Veloxity’s PK/TK analysis services, visit [veloxitylabs.com/services](https://www.veloxitylabs.com/services).

[biopharmadive](https://www.biopharmadive.com/press-release/20250212-bioanalytical-cro-veloxity-labs-and-aplos-analytics-partner-to-transform-1/)
