---
title: "Certis Oncology Announces Issuance of U.S. Patent for its Proprietary CertisAI Predictive Oncology Intelligence Platform™"
date: "2025-02-13 02:30:29"
summary: "SAN DIEGO — San Diego, CA — February 12, 2025 — Certis Oncology Solutions, a precision oncology and translational science company, announced today that the United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO) has allowed a patent application directed to Certis’s predictive artificial intelligence/machine learning (AI/ML) platform, CertisAI™. “The patent marks..."
categories:
  - "biopharmadive"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "biopharmadive"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

**SAN DIEGO —** 

San Diego, CA — February 12, 2025 — Certis Oncology Solutions, a precision oncology and translational science company, announced today that the United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO) has allowed a patent application directed to Certis’s predictive artificial intelligence/machine learning (AI/ML) platform, CertisAI™.

“The patent marks an important milestone for our company,” said Peter Ellman, President and CEO of Certis.“ It substantiates the uniqueness of our proprietary platform and the underlying methods for predicting drug response,” he said. “By offering CertisAI as a service, we are democratizing access to powerful AI/ML tools, leveling the playing field for biopharmaceutical companies that may lack the internal resources required to build proprietary AI into their workflows.”

The company launched CertisAI™ in April 2024 as an extension of its preclinical biopharmaceutical services offering. The platform brings data-driven precision to a variety of early development decisions and provides a virtual environment in which to test and validate hypotheses related to drug efficacy, resistance and synergies. By correlating drug features and drug response with gene expression signatures, CertisAI™ can optimize preclinical model selection for drug efficacy studies and inform patient enrollment criteria for clinical trials—commonly cited causes of failed development programs. In silico analyses also can inform regulatory strategies, including label expansion and drug repurposing.

The patent broadly protects a predictive AI/ML platform that integrates multiple data sets including drug features, gene expression biomarkers, and drug response, as well as the use of patient-derived xenograft (PDX) for model validation. The patent protection is expected to last until March 2043.

***About CertisAI™***  
CertisAI™ is a patent-pending predictive artificial intelligence/machine learning (AI/ML) platform developed by Certis Oncology Solutions. It is the first and only commercially available, validated AI/ML platform that predicts therapeutic efficacy by identifying complex gene expression signatures that correlate with drug response. The platform is designed to assist pharmaceutical researchers to develop and clinicians to identify new treatment options for specific cancers based on a tumor’s unique gene expression profile.

[biopharmadive](https://www.biopharmadive.com/press-release/20250212-certis-oncology-announces-issuance-of-us-patent-for-its-proprietary-certi-2/)
