---
title: "Biggest stock movers Tuesday: LSCC, FLNC, SMCI, and more"
date: "2025-02-11 13:00:00"
summary: "Stock futures dipped slightly Tuesday morning following President Donald Trump's announcement of a 25% tariff on steel imports. Additionally, he plans to increase aluminum tariffs from 10% to 25%, with both changes to take effect on March 4. Here are some of Tuesday's biggest stock movers: Biggest stock gainers Lattice..."
categories:
  - "seekalpha"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "seekalpha"
menu: ""
thumbnail: "https://static.seekingalpha.com/cdn/s3/uploads/getty_images/1465618017/image_1465618017.jpg"
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Stock futures dipped slightly Tuesday morning following President Donald Trump's announcement of a 25% tariff on steel imports. Additionally, he plans to increase aluminum tariffs from 10% to 25%, with both changes to take effect on March 4.

Here are some of Tuesday's biggest stock movers:

Biggest stock gainers
---------------------

* Lattice Semiconductor (NASDAQ:[LSCC](https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/LSCC "Lattice Semiconductor Corporation")) shares jumped 14% despite reporting mixed Q4 results and a 31% Y/Y revenue decline. The company provided an upbeat 1Q25 outlook, guiding revenue between $115M and $125M (midpoint $120M) above the $118.75M consensus. Non-GAAP gross margin is expected at 69% ±1% for Q1, while adjusted EPS is projected at $0.20–$0.24 (midpoint $0.22), exceeding the $0.21 consensus. CEO Tamer reaffirmed expectations for a "U-shaped recovery" in 2025, with low single-digit revenue growth for the year and a projected 15%-20% long-term growth by 2026, fueled by new product launches and inventory normalization.
* SelectQuote (NYSE:[SLQT](https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/SLQT "SelectQuote, Inc.")) shares soared over 35% after securing a $350M strategic investment from Bain Capital, Morgan Stanley Private Credit, and Newlight Partners, alongside reporting strong FQ2 results and an optimistic FY2025 outlook. The investment will help recapitalize its balance sheet, reduce annual cash debt service, and enhance liquidity for growth initiatives. Additionally, the company renegotiated its Senior Secured Credit Facility to secure a lower interest rate. As part of the deal, Chris Wolfe (Bain Capital) and Srdjan Vukovic (Newlight Partners) will join the Board of Directors upon the transaction's expected closure on February 28, 2025.

Biggest stock losers
--------------------

* Fluence Energy (NASDAQ:[FLNC](https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/FLNC "Fluence Energy, Inc.")) shares tumbled 36% after the company slashed its FY2025 outlook following an FQ1 earnings miss. The company lowered its total revenue guidance to $3.1B–$3.7B, with a midpoint of $3.4B below the consensus of $3.91B, down from the previous range of $3.6B–$4.4B (midpoint $4.0B), citing contract delays in Australia. The adjusted EBITDA outlook was also cut to $70M–$100M (midpoint $85M) from the prior $160M–$200M, reflecting lower expected revenue and reduced gross margins on recent contracts. Despite these setbacks, CEO Julian Nebreda highlighted strong demand for utility-scale battery storage and a record $5.1B backlog, expressing confidence in long-term growth and improved financial performance in FY2026 and beyond.
* Harmonic (NASDAQ:[HLIT](https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/HLIT "Harmonic Inc.")) shares plunged nearly 30% after issuing weaker-than-expected guidance despite surpassing Q4 estimates. The company projects FY2025 revenue between $585M and $645M, falling short of the $720.73M consensus, while expected EPS of $0.43-$0.68 also misses the $0.87 estimate. Management attributed the anticipated revenue decline to the timing of Unified DOCSIS 4.0 deployments but expects a rebound in 2026.
* Super Micro Computer (NASDAQ:[SMCI](https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/SMCI "Super Micro Computer, Inc.")) slipped as much as 5% ahead of its FQ2 results, with analysts expecting EPS of $0.75 (-86.6% Y/Y) and revenue of $5.94B (+62.3% Y/Y). SMCI has a strong track record, beating EPS and revenue estimates 88% of the time over the past two years. Investors are closely watching the earnings release for updates on the company's FY2024 10-K submission, as Nasdaq has granted an extension until February 25, 2025. SMCI recently engaged a new auditor, BDO, and has stated that no financial restatements will be needed.

[seekalpha](https://seekingalpha.com/news/4405934-biggest-stock-movers-tuesday-lscc-flnc-and-more)
