---
title: "CPI seen holding stable in January, with more signs of housing disinflation"
date: "2025-02-11 23:16:00"
summary: "Overall, economists expect that inflation will get no worse in January when the Bureau of Labor Statistics releases new data on Wednesday at 8:30 AM ET. The Consumer Price Index is expected to stay relatively stable in January, according to the average estimate of economists. The headline CPI is anticipated..."
categories:
  - "seekalpha"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "seekalpha"
menu: ""
thumbnail: "https://static.seekingalpha.com/cdn/s3/uploads/getty_images/2173998931/image_2173998931.jpg"
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Overall, economists expect that inflation will get no worse in January when the Bureau of Labor Statistics releases new data on Wednesday at 8:30 AM ET.

The Consumer Price Index is expected to stay relatively stable in January, according to the average estimate of economists. The headline CPI is anticipated to rise 0.3% M/M, easing slightly from +0.4% in December. On a year-over-year basis, that comes to +2.9%, unchanged from inflation growth in December.

Excluding food and energy prices, which can distort the headline numbers due to their volatility, CPi is expected to increase 0.3%, up slightly from 0.2% in the prior month. That's up 3.2% Y/Y, unchanged from the previous month's increase.

By any measure, inflation is still hovering solidly above the Federal Reserve's target of 2%. And by the Fed's own estimation, it's not expected to retreat to 2% until the end of 2027. To be sure, the rate has subsided from the 9.1% peak in June 2022. Looking even further back, the CPI rose more than 14% Y/Y in 1980.

Mark Hamrick, senior economic analyst at Bankrate, said, "Progress has been made, but not enough to satisfy consumers or our central bankers. The outlook remains uncertain due to policy uncertainty, with Washington as the epicenter."

While the hope is that price increases will moderate further, "the Federal Reserve cannot yet check the ‘mission accomplished’ box related to achieving its 2% annualized inflation target," he said. Last month, the Fed paused its string of interest rate cuts, and "many observers think the Fed might be in wait-and-see mode for months," he added.

Citi is expecting a 0.34% M/M core CPI increase in January, which, along with PPI data, implies a 0.31% M/M increase in core PCE, the Fed's preferred inflation gauge. Economist Veronica Clark says the M/M change should be significantly softer than the 0.50% M/M increase in January 2024, due to slowing shelter inflation.

"Softer Q1 inflation data than last year should leave an easing inflation trend in place, despite some possibly stronger goods prices in the spring due to 10% tariffs on China," Clark said in a note to clients.

SA Analyst [Damir Tokic](https://seekingalpha.com/author/damir-tokic " Damir Tokic ") acknowledges the declining shelter inflation, but worries that tariffs may erase that progress. "Trump's tariffs, if fully implemented, could [cause a spike in the goods inflation](https://seekingalpha.com/article/4756405-january-cpi-preview-looming-inflationary-shock " cause a spike in the goods inflation"), as well as the commodity prices like copper ([HG1:COM](https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/HG1:COM#hasComeFromMpArticle=false#source=section%3Amain_content%7Cbutton%3Abody_link "https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/HG1:COM")), which is up by 15% YTD," he wrote. That could push up interest rates and trigger a sharp correction in the S&P 500, he added.

Michael Kramer of [Mott Capital Management](https://seekingalpha.com/author/mott-capital-management), Investing Group Leader for Reading The Markets, said falling productivity and rising labor costs are [fueling inflation fears.](https://seekingalpha.com/article/4756403-cpi-report-may-shock-markets "fueling inflation fears.") In addition, markets are anticipating higher inflation, which could lead the Fed to reconsider further rate cuts, with "this week's CPI report playing a crucial role," he said.

[seekalpha](https://seekingalpha.com/news/4405728-cpi-seen-holding-stable-in-january-with-more-signs-of-housing-disinflation)
