---
title: "Salesforce spurs AI development in Saudi Arabia with $500M investment"
date: "2025-02-10 19:19:13"
summary: "Salesforce (NYSE:CRM) plans to invest $500M in Saudi Arabia to bolster artificial intelligence development in the region, which includes training up to 30,000 locals in AI skills, the customer relationship management company revealed on Monday. Salesforce shares inched up 1% during Monday trading. The investment plan was announced just days..."
categories:
  - "seekalpha"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "seekalpha"
menu: ""
thumbnail: "https://static.seekingalpha.com/cdn/s3/uploads/getty_images/2152909896/image_2152909896.jpg"
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Salesforce (NYSE:[CRM](https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/CRM "Salesforce, Inc.")) plans to invest $500M in Saudi Arabia to bolster artificial intelligence development in the region, which includes training up to 30,000 locals in AI skills, the customer relationship management company revealed on Monday.

Salesforce shares inched up 1% during Monday trading.

The investment plan was announced just days after the Marc Benioff-led firm said it was establishing a new regional headquarters in Riyadh. Salesforce said the widespread adoption of Agentforce, an AI agent platform, has prompted its expansion.

"We are entering a new era where autonomous AI agents working with humans are transforming workforces and businesses across the globe," Benioff said**.** "With Agentforce, Hyperforce, and our global partner ecosystem, we are empowering Saudi organizations to deliver unprecedented levels of productivity, growth, and customer success."

Ecosystem partnerships with Capgemini ([OTCPK:CAPMF](https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/CAPMF "Capgemini SE")), Deloitte, Globant ([GLOB](https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/GLOB "Globant S.A.")), IBM (NYSE:[IBM](https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/IBM "International Business Machines Corporation")) and PwC, as well as Amazon Web Services ([AMZN](https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/AMZN "Amazon.com, Inc.")) are expected to extend capabilities in the area, Salesforce said.

"This is a moment where productivity is no longer tied to workforce growth but to intelligent technology that can be scaled without limits, a new era of humans with agents working together to drive customer success," Benioff added. "I look forward to seeing the fruits of our partnership with IBM and our customers in the region."

Salesforce is also opening an AI Innovation Center with IBM in Riyadh.

"By integrating Salesforce's AI capabilities with IBM’s consulting expertise and watsonx technology, we are not just creating solutions, but fostering an ecosystem where Agentforce could drive unparalleled productivity and value," said Dave McCann, managing partner at IBM Consulting EMEA.

[seekalpha](https://seekingalpha.com/news/4405652-salesforce-spurs-ai-development-in-saudi-arabia-with-500m-investment)
