---
title: "France unveils $112B AI investment package to rival US’ Stargate"
date: "2025-02-10 15:22:12"
summary: "French president Emmanuel Macron on Sunday unveiled a total of €109 billion ($112 billion) in private investments in the AI ecosystem ahead of the nation’s global AI summit this week. Paris is hosting the Artificial Intelligence Action Summit this week, with notable participants including U.S. Vice President JD Vance, Microsoft..."
categories:
  - "seekalpha"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "seekalpha"
menu: ""
thumbnail: "https://static.seekingalpha.com/cdn/s3/uploads/getty_images/1795495467/image_1795495467.jpg"
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

French president Emmanuel Macron on Sunday unveiled a total of €109 billion ($112 billion) in private investments in the AI ecosystem ahead of the nation’s global AI summit this week.

Paris is hosting the Artificial Intelligence Action Summit this week, with notable participants including U.S. Vice President JD Vance, Microsoft ([MSFT](https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/MSFT "Microsoft Corporation")) President Brad Smith, OpenAI CEO Sam Altman, Google ([GOOG](https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/GOOG "Alphabet Inc.")) ([GOOGL](https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/GOOGL "Alphabet Inc.")) DeepMind CEO Demis Hassabis and Anthropic CEO Dario Amodei.

Speaking with French broadcaster TF1, Macron described the multibillion-euro AI investment package as “the equivalent for France of what the United States announced with Stargate,” referring to U.S. President Donald Trump’s $500B, four-year initiative to build out artificial intelligence infrastructure.

The French financing has drawn pledges from foreign and local players, with alternative asset manager Brookfield Asset Management (NYSE:[BAM](https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/BAM "Brookfield Asset Management Ltd.")) [announcing](https://seekingalpha.com/pr/19996307-brookfield-to-invest-20-billion-in-france-s-ai-infrastructure "announcing") a €20 billion infrastructure investment program to support the deployment of AI infrastructure in the country.

The Brookfield investment will be targeted across data centers and associated infrastructure sectors, which are vital for AI deployment. Up to €15B of data center investment will be led by Brookfield’s portfolio company, Data4, which has existing plans to build over 500 MW of data center capacity located across several regions in France, with an ambition to triple that by 2030 as part of today’s announcement.

French President Emmanuel Macron declared: "The €20 billion investment by Brookfield notably through Data4 will allow France to remain in the race alongside major AI players.”

The UAE has also pledged a €30B-€50B investment, while France’s public investment bank Bpifrance has committed up to €10B. A few companies have yet to announce their plans.

[seekalpha](https://seekingalpha.com/news/4405493-france-unveils-112b-ai-investment-package-to-rival-us-stargate)
