---
title: "Amazon's post Q4 price action presents buying opportunity - analysts"
date: "2025-02-07 20:42:50"
summary: "Amazon’s lackluster outlook for FY25 and as-expected growth in its cloud services business may have spooked investors, but Wall Street analysts see the 4% drop in the share price as a buying opportunity and are holding firm on their bullish outlook for the stock. “I think this is a prime..."
categories:
  - "seekalpha"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "seekalpha"
menu: ""
thumbnail: "https://static.seekingalpha.com/cdn/s3/uploads/getty_images/1252468735/image_1252468735.jpg"
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Amazon’s lackluster outlook for FY25 and as-expected growth in its cloud services business may have spooked investors, but Wall Street analysts see the 4% drop in the share price as a buying opportunity and are holding firm on their bullish outlook for the stock.

“I think this is a prime opportunity to buy the dip because the medium-longer term outlook looks bright, particularly on the margin side,” said Seeking Alpha analyst group [Hunting Alpha.](https://seekingalpha.com/author/hunting-alpha "Hunting Alpha.") “I expect the company's efforts to optimize the last-mile delivery network, use of robotics and automation and lower freight shipping costs to aid in reducing per-unit costs to serve in its retail commerce business. And on the AWS side, Amazon's decision to design its own chips helps reduce costs and hence boost AWS EBIT margins,” the group adds.

Yesterday’s results gave investors enough excuses to sell (light FY25 guidance, soft third-party seller sales) and enough positives to limit losses (EPS and sales beat, 19% growth in AWS revenue, operating income up 61%).  

“So, what we have here is an Expectations Correction…not a Fundamentals Correction,” summed up Evercore’s Mark Mahaney.

“Profitability remains the star of the Amazon show, with Q4 operating margin a record high,” Mahaney adds. And as a “high quality compounder with 20% EPS CAGR”, Amazon remains one of Evercore’s top longs. Mahaney maintained his Outperform rating on the company, lifting his price target by 4% to $270.

As the main driver to Amazon’s profitability, the cloud service gleaned the most attention, but the performance of the retail business was perhaps underappreciated.

“I may be in the minority in being more optimistic about Amazon retail's long-term profitability. But when I think about Amazon retail's long-term future, the gap between Amazon and the competitors may keep growing," said Seeking Alpha analyst [Abdullah Al-Rezwan](https://seekingalpha.com/author/abdullah-al-rezwan-cfa "Abdullah Al-Rezwan"), a sentiment shared by Morgan Stanley’s Brian Nowak who thinks Amazon (NASDAQ:[AMZN](https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/AMZN "Amazon.com, Inc.")) is “underappreciated for its retail GPU-enabled and GenAI improvements to come.”

Amazon’s (NASDAQ:[AMZN](https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/AMZN "Amazon.com, Inc.")) plan to accelerate investments in robotics and automation will likely lead to more durable and profitable retail growth, Nowak says, while its growing implementation of GenAI across the retail platform is “encouraging.” Morgan Stanley held onto its Overweight rating on Amazon (NASDAQ:[AMZN](https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/AMZN "Amazon.com, Inc.")), and $280 price target, which translates to a 17% upside.

On the company’s earnings call, CFO Brian Olsavsky predicts a $115B annualized run rate for its cloud business, which will also grab the majority of the company’s capital investments this year.

But even though Amazon has once again pivoted toward a new investment cycle to play a key role in the AI revolution, “its [trailing twelve-month free cash flow] is still hovering around a jaw-dropping $40B, suggesting that once capex decreases, Amazon will be swimming in profits,” Seeking Alpha analyst [Luci Socci](https://seekingalpha.com/author/luca-socci " Luci Socci ") said.

Supply constraints may create some near-term volatility to AWS growth, “but in our view the big picture AWS and hyperscaler multi-year growth opportunity is becoming clearer as we move closer to the phase of more material inference across the economy,” Nowak says, modeling 17% growth in AWS for FY25 and FY26 with the potential for upside if broader GenAI inference comes faster.

[seekalpha](https://seekingalpha.com/news/4405227-amazons-post-q4-price-action-presents-buying-opportunity-analysts)
