---
title: "Biggest stock movers Monday: BP, X, and more"
date: "2025-02-10 13:05:38"
summary: "Stock futures edged up Monday morning ahead of the rollout of new tariffs by President Donald Trump. Here are some of Monday's biggest stock movers: Biggest stock gainers BP (NYSE:BP) shares climbed 7% following reports that activist investor Elliott Management has acquired a stake in the oil major. Sources suggest..."
categories:
  - "seekalpha"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "seekalpha"
menu: ""
thumbnail: "https://static.seekingalpha.com/cdn/s3/uploads/getty_images/88621476/image_88621476.jpg"
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Stock futures edged up Monday morning ahead of the rollout of new tariffs by President Donald Trump.

Here are some of Monday's biggest stock movers:

Biggest stock gainers
---------------------

* BP (NYSE:[BP](https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/BP "BP p.l.c.")) shares climbed 7% following reports that activist investor Elliott Management has acquired a stake in the oil major. Sources suggest the firm may advocate for a strategic shift in BP’s core oil and gas operations and push for measures to maximize shareholder value. The company is scheduled to report its Q4 earnings on Tuesday, February 11.
* U.S. Steel (NYSE:[X](https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/X "United States Steel Corporation")) shares surged 8% after Japan’s Cabinet Secretary Yoshimasa Hayashi reportedly said Nippon Steel ([OTCPK:NPSCY](https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/NPSCY "Nippon Steel Corporation")) ([OTCPK:NISTF](https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/NISTF "Nippon Steel Corporation")) is considering a major shift in its bid for the American steelmaker. Hayashi noted that the revised approach would benefit both Japan and the U.S. through significant investments and the production of high-quality steel. On Friday, former President Donald Trump stated that Nippon Steel’s acquisition would be structured as an investment rather than a full takeover, though the Japanese company has not withdrawn its bid. However, Trump reiterated Sunday that no entity would be allowed to take a majority stake in U.S. Steel and announced a 25% tariff on all steel and aluminum imports, with further details expected later today.

Biggest stock losers
--------------------

* Shares of California-based biopharma Pliant Therapeutics (NASDAQ:[PLRX](https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/PLRX "Pliant Therapeutics, Inc.")) plummeted ~58% after the company announced a pause in dosing and enrollment for its Phase 2b trial of lead asset bexotegrast for idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis. The decision followed a data review and recommendations from the study’s independent safety committee. According to Pliant’s Q3 2024 earnings release in November, the 52-week global BEACON-IPF trial was expected to complete enrollment in Q1 2025, with data anticipated in mid-2026. The company voluntarily paused the study to assess the safety board’s recommendation while maintaining study blinding to preserve data integrity. Patients already enrolled will continue participating in the trial.

[seekalpha](https://seekingalpha.com/news/4405460-biggest-stock-movers-monday-bp-x-and-more)
