---
title: "Here's why one economist sees no Fed rate cuts this year"
date: "2025-02-10 00:35:18"
summary: "Ever since inflation spiked in 2021, the Federal Reserve has been trying to get inflation down to its 2% goal. In response, the central bank raised its policy rate by 5.25 percentage points in 2022 and 2023, making money more expensive in an effort to cool the economy from its..."
categories:
  - "seekalpha"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "seekalpha"
menu: ""
thumbnail: "https://static.seekingalpha.com/cdn/s3/uploads/getty_images/152183169/image_152183169.jpg"
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Ever since inflation spiked in 2021, the Federal Reserve has been trying to get inflation down to its 2% goal. In response, the central bank raised its policy rate by 5.25 percentage points in 2022 and 2023, making money more expensive in an effort to cool the economy from its overheated state. As disinflation kicked in, the Fed was able to ease off the gas, and cut its rate by 100 basis points since September.

The central bank paused its rate cuts at its January meeting. When or if it will resume rate cuts hangs in the balance, especially as markets wait to see what happens with tariffs and immigration under the second Trump administration.

Service sector inflation hasn't come back down to pre-pandemic levels, and with potential restraint on labor from deportations and reduced immigration on the services and goods sides, that would lead to higher wages to fill job vacancies, according to one economist.

"I think that the Fed is in a really good spot right now to do nothing for a while," said Daniel Doderer, economist and research director at Flack Global Metals, a company that buys, sells, manufactures, trades, and invests in flat rolled steel.

"We're going from a well supplied/healthy demand labor market to one that could see a restriction in supply with unchanged and potentially higher demand," Doderer said. That doesn't bode well for rate cuts.

With inflation remaining above target and the potential for economic growth staying healthy, "there's no real need to cut" interest rates, he said in an interview with Seeking Alpha. "There's no clear indication that you can point to, saying, 'the rates are currently very restrictive, and we need to start lowering interest rates to incentivize more activity.'"

"So, our expectation internally is that we won't see an interest rate cut this year. We're only slightly more likely to see a cut than a hike going into the year, just because there are a lot of upside risks to inflation," he added.

Just the threat of tariffs can lead to higher prices. When companies make their business plans, "the easy conclusion" will be to hike prices when they're not sure what's going to happen with their costs, Doderer said.

Even without the tariffs, there's still upward pressure on prices. While goods pricing has been deflationary, housing inflation has proven "sticky," and other service components, such airfare, haven't come back down, Doderer noted. "We just haven't really seen the progress more broadly on the services side that we would have hoped to see**."** And the goods disinflation will disappear as time progresses, as year-over-year comparisons become more difficult.

In addition, renewed optimism on manufacturing activity may add to inflation on the goods side. "When you look at the risks, the path to getting to 2% [inflation], given the underlying dynamics and kind of the way these tectonic plates are shifting the next couple of months, it's hard to see how we get to target for the entire year," Doderer said.

He'll be looking closely at this week's consumer price index (Wednesday) and producer price index (Thursday) reports for more clues on inflation trends. He expects that core CPI will stay between 2.5% and 3% for the next couple of months. And as last year's increases work their way through, "you're looking at a scenario where we won't really have a good read on what over-year inflation is actually running at until we get into the May-ish" timeframe. Thus, he doesn't expect that the Fed will get a better understanding of inflation trends until the end of the summer.

**Dear readers:** We recognize that politics often intersects with the financial news of the day, so we invite you to click [here to join the separate political discussion.](https://seekingalpha.com/author/political-comments "here to join the separate political discussion.")

[seekalpha](https://seekingalpha.com/news/4405169-heres-why-one-economist-sees-no-fed-rate-cuts-this-year)
