---
title: "Consumers' inflation expectations hold steady in January: NY Fed"
date: "2025-02-10 19:01:56"
summary: "Consumers, the engine of the U.S. economy, kept their inflation expectations for the near- and medium-term timeframes unchanged in the Federal Reserve Bank of New York's January 2025 Survey of Consumer Expectations. Meanwhile, for the year-ahead period, they increased modestly their expectations for income growth and lowered their expectations for..."
categories:
  - "seekalpha"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "seekalpha"
menu: ""
thumbnail: "https://static.seekingalpha.com/cdn/s3/uploads/getty_images/1139792613/image_1139792613.jpg"
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Consumers, the engine of the U.S. economy, kept their inflation expectations for the near- and medium-term timeframes unchanged in the Federal Reserve Bank of New York's January 2025 Survey of Consumer Expectations. Meanwhile, for the year-ahead period, they increased modestly their expectations for income growth and lowered their expectations for spending. On the bottom line, they expect their growth in income to equal the rate of inflation.

For both the year-ahead and three-year horizons, the median inflation expectation was 3.0%, unchanged from the prior survey. However, the median five-year-ahead inflation expectation increased by 0.3 percentage point to 3.0%. That rise was driven mostly by respondents with a high school education or less. The level of inflation expected also indicates that consumers aren't expecting the Fed will achieve its 2% inflation goal any time soon.

Regarding income and spending, the median expected growth in household income for the year ahead rose by 0.2 pp to 3.0% in January, equal to the expected inflation rate. The series has been moving in a range of 2.8% and 3.1% since August 2023.

Median household spending growth expectation dipped by 0.4 pp to 4.4%, its lowest print in four years, but still above pre-pandemic levels. In addition, the net share of households reporting that it's easier versus harder to obtain credit than it was a year ago increased. Expectations for future credit availability also improved.

Consumers appear to be more concerned about losing their current job. The mean perceived probability of losing one's job in the next 12 months rose by 2.3 pp to 14.2%, the New York Fed [said.](https://www.newyorkfed.org/newsevents/news/research/2025/20250210 "said.")

[seekalpha](https://seekingalpha.com/news/4405619-consumers-inflation-expectations-hold-steady-in-january-ny-fed)
