---
title: "Weekly Economic Calender: Focus on CPI, Jobless claims"
date: "2025-02-10 18:05:14"
summary: "Monday - February 10 No events scheduled Tuesday - February 11 6:00 AM NFIB Small Business Optimism The National Federation of Independent Business Small Business Optimism Index is a composite of ten seasonally adjusted components indicating the health of small businesses in the U.S. The economists expect a reading of..."
categories:
  - "seekalpha"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "seekalpha"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

**Monday - February 10**

No events scheduled

**Tuesday - February 11**

**6:00 AM NFIB Small Business Optimism**

The National Federation of Independent Business Small Business Optimism Index is a composite of ten seasonally adjusted components indicating the health of small businesses in the U.S. The economists expect a reading of 104.7 in January, from 105.1 in December.

**8:50 AM Fed's Hammack: Economic Outlook**

Cleveland Federal Reserve Bank President Beth Hammack speaks on the economic outlook before the University of Kentucky Gatton School of Business and Economics 2025 Economic Outlook Conference.

**10:00 AM Powell testifies before Senate Banking Committee**

Federal Reserve Chairman Jerome Powell delivers semiannual monetary policy report before the U.S. Senate Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.

**1:00 PM 3-Yr Note Auction**

The 3-year Treasury yield is the interest rate the U.S. government pays investors who purchase 10-year Treasury notes, also known as T-notes. The treasury will hold an auction of $58 Billion, 3-year note. US 3 Year Note Bond Yield was 4.31 percent on Monday February 10, according to over-the-counter interbank yield quotes for this government bond maturity.

**3:30 PM Fed's Williams Speech**

New York Federal Reserve Bank President John Williams gives keynote remarks before the Pace University Economics Society.

**Wednesday - February 12**

**07:00 AM MBA Mortgage Applications**

The data point measures the change in the number of new applications for mortgages backed by the MBA during the reported week. Mortgage applications edged higher 2.2% in the last week after interest rates eased to 6.97%.

**8:30 AM Consumer Price Index**

The Consumer Price Index measures the change in the price of goods and services from the perspective of the consumer. It is a key way to measure changes in purchasing trends and inflation. CPI is expected to rise for the third time to 2.9% in January.

**10:00 AM Powell testifies before Senate Banking Committee**

Federal Reserve Chairman Jerome Powell delivers semiannual monetary policy testimony before the House Financial Services Committee.

**10:30 AM EIA Petroleum Status Report**

The Energy Information Administration (EIA) provides weekly information on petroleum inventories in the U.S., whether produced here or abroad. The level of inventories helps determine prices for petroleum products.

**12:00 PM Fed's Bostic: Economic Outlook**

Atlanta Federal Reserve Bank President Raphael Bostic speaks on the economic outlook in a moderated conversation before the Atlanta chapter of the National Association of Corporate Directors.

**1:00 PM 10-Yr Note Auction**

The 10-year Treasury yield is the interest rate the U.S. government pays investors who purchase 10-year Treasury notes, also known as T-notes. The treasury will hold an auction of $42 Billion, 10-year note. The yield on the 10-year US Treasury note remained relatively unchanged around 4.49% on Monday, February 10.

**2:00 PM Treasury Statement**

The Monthly Treasury Statement summarizes the financial activities of the federal government and off-budget federal entities and conforms to the Budget of the U.S. Government. The MTS presents a summary of: Receipts and outlays. Surplus or deficit.

**Thursday - February 13**

**8:30 AM Initial Jobless Claims**

Initial Jobless Claims measures the number of individuals who filed for unemployment insurance for the first time during the past week. The jobless claims are expected to dip slightly to 215K after rising to 219K in the prior week.

**8:30 AM PPI-Final Demand**

The Producer Price Index measures the change in the price of goods sold by manufacturers. It is a leading indicator of consumer price inflation, which accounts for the majority of overall inflation. Core PPI is expected to gain 0.2% month-over-month in January.

**10:30 EIA Natural Gas Inventory**

The Energy Information Administration Natural Gas Storage report measures the change in the number of cubic feet of natural gas held in underground storage over the prior week. US utilities with draw 174 billion cubic feet of gas into storage during the week ended January 31, 2024.

**1:00 PM 30-Yr Bond Auction**

The auction indicates the percentage yield on 30-year bond auction. The US Treasury Department will hold an auction for $25 billion of 30-year auction. US 30 Year Bond Yield was 4.71 percent on Monday February 10, according to over-the-counter interbank yield quotes for this government bond maturity.

**4:30 PM Fed Balance Sheet** 

The Fed balance sheet is a weekly report listing the assets and liabilities of the Federal Reserve System.

**Friday - February 14**

**8:30 AM Retail Sales**

Retail Sales measure the change in the total value of sales at the retail level. It is the foremost indicator of consumer spending, which accounts for the majority of overall economic activity. January retail sales are expected to be flat over the prior month after gaining 0.4% in December.

**8:30 AM Import/Export Prices**

The Import/Export Price Indexes contain data on changes in the prices of nonmilitary goods and services traded between the U.S. and the rest of the world. The imports price is set to decline by 0.4%, while export prices are expected to gain 0.3% in January.

**9:15 AM Industrial Production**

The industrial production index is a monthly economic indicator that measures the real output of a country's manufacturing, mining, electric, and gas industries. Industrial production is expected to rise 0.3% in January after gainaing 0.9% in December.

**10:00 AM Business Inventories**

Business Inventories measures the change in the worth of unsold goods held by manufacturers, wholesalers, and retailers. Total business inventories are expected to go up by 0.3% in December, following a 0.1% increase in November.

**1:00 PM Baker-Hughes Rig Count**

The Baker Hughes North American rig count tracks weekly changes in the number of active operating oil & gas rigs. The active rig count acts as a leading indicator of demand for oil products. Crude Oil Rigs in the United States increased to 480 in February 7 from 479 in the previous week.

[seekalpha](https://seekingalpha.com/news/4405430-weekly-economic-calender-focus-on-cpi-jobless-claims)
