---
title: "McDonald's global comp sales strength offsets U.S. weakness, core metric misses in Q4"
date: "2025-02-10 16:03:58"
summary: "U.S. fast food chain McDonald's (NYSE:MCD) beat the comparable sales estimates in its fourth quarter earnings report, absorbing the impact of top-and-bottom line misses. Global comparable sales rose 0.4% for the restaurant giant, which was better than the -0.93% consensus expectation of analysts. U.S. comparable sales came in at -1.4%,..."
categories:
  - "seekalpha"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "seekalpha"
menu: ""
thumbnail: "https://static.seekingalpha.com/cdn/s3/uploads/getty_images/458737115/image_458737115.jpg"
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

U.S. fast food chain McDonald's (NYSE:[MCD](https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/MCD "McDonald's Corporation")) beat the comparable sales estimates in its fourth quarter earnings report, absorbing the impact of top-and-bottom line misses.

Global comparable sales rose 0.4% for the restaurant giant, which was better than the -0.93% consensus expectation of analysts.

U.S. comparable sales came in at -1.4%, worse than the -0.41% consensus for Q4, reflecting a decline in average check, partly offset by slightly positive comparable guest counts.

The International Operated Markets segment saw a 0.1% rise in comparable sales during the quarter, vs. -1.14% consensus. Segment performance reflects positive comparable sales in most markets, partly offset by negative comparable sales in some markets, led by the U.K.

The International Developmental Licensed Markets segment saw a 4.1% comparable sales rise vs. -0.38% consensus.

Consolidated operating income increased 1% during the quarter and was also up 1% on a constant currency basis.

Net income for the three months ended December 31 was $2.02B or $2.80 per share, compared to $2.04B or $2.80 per share for the same period last year. Foreign currency translation had a negative impact of $0.02 on diluted earnings per share.

On an adjusted per-share basis, the company earned $2.83, missing estimates by just a cent.

Revenue fell 0.3% to $6.39B and fell short of the $6.45B consensus mark.

Looking ahead, the Chicago, Illinois-based chain said it expects the 2025 operating margin percent to be in the mid-to-high 40% range and expects interest expense to increase between 4% and 6%, due to higher average debt balances and higher average interest rates.

McDonald's expects to spend between $3B and $3.2B in 2025, with the majority directed towards new restaurant unit expansion across the U.S. and international operated markets. It expects to open about 2,200 restaurants globally, of which 600 would be in the U.S.

The company expects 1,800 net restaurant additions in the year and is aiming to achieve a free cash flow conversion rate in the low-to-mid 80% range.

Shares of McDonald's (NYSE:[MCD](https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/MCD "McDonald's Corporation")) rose 2% in premarket action to $300.24 vs. the 52-week trading range of $243.53 to $317.90. Restaurant stocks on watch: Wendy's ([WEN](https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/WEN "The Wendy's Company")), Shake Shack ([SHAK](https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/SHAK "Shake Shack Inc.")), Yum! Brands ([YUM](https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/YUM "Yum! Brands, Inc.")), and Restaurant Brands International ([QSR](https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/QSR "Restaurant Brands International Inc.")).

[seekalpha](https://seekingalpha.com/news/4405526-mcdonalds-global-comp-sales-strength-offsets-u_s_-weakness-core-metric-misses-in-q4)
