---
title: "Acting CFPB chief suspends supervision of companies: reports"
date: "2025-02-09 20:06:06"
summary: "Acting Consumer Financial Protection Bureau chief Russell Vought has ordered the suspension of the regulator’s supervision of companies that it oversees, according to media reports, citing a late Saturday internal memo. Vought, who was confirmed as the director of the Office of Management and Budget late last week, posted on..."
categories:
  - "seekalpha"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "seekalpha"
menu: ""
thumbnail: "https://static.seekingalpha.com/cdn/s3/uploads/getty_images/2195314720/image_2195314720.jpg"
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Acting Consumer Financial Protection Bureau chief Russell Vought has ordered the suspension of the regulator’s supervision of companies that it oversees, according to media reports, citing a late Saturday internal memo.

Vought, who was confirmed as the director of the Office of Management and Budget late last week, [posted on X](https://x.com/russvought/status/1888423503537360986) late Saturday that he notified the Federal Reserve that the CFPB won’t “be taking its next draw of unappropriated funding because it is not ‘reasonably necessary’ to carry out its duties.”

He added that the $711.6M that the agency currently has “is in fact excessive in the current fiscal environment. This spigot, long contributing to the CFPB’s unaccountability, is now being turned off.”

[According to NBC News](https://www.nbcnews.com/politics/doge/russell-vought-consumer-financial-protection-bureau-trump-rcna191356), Vought ordered that CFPB staff not "approve or issue any proposed or final rules or formal or informal guidance" and "suspend the effective dates of all final rules that have been issued or published but that have not yet become effective," among other directions in the memo.

Vought said the orders are effective immediately, unless he allows exceptions or an action is legally required, NBC News reported.

Rohit Chopra [was removed](https://seekingalpha.com/news/4401705-consumer-financial-protection-bureau-director-rohit-chopra-leaving-post) as CFPB director by President Donald Trump on Feb. 1.

Treasury Secretary Scott Bessent briefly led the CFPB until Vought took over.

U.S. Sen. Elizabeth Warren, who helped create the CFPB, blasted Vought’s moves.

“Vought is giving big banks and giant corporations the green light to scam families,” she said in a [post on X](https://x.com/senwarren/status/1888422012453793988?s=46&t=KcGQbbOawLdPiUGqHqz7cw) late Saturday. “The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has returned over $21 billion to families cheated by Wall Street. Republicans have failed to gut it in Congress and in the courts. They will fail again.”

Neither the CFPB nor OMB immediately responded to Seeking Alpha’s requests for comment. The reports said that Vought ordered the CFPB to stop public communications.

[seekalpha](https://seekingalpha.com/news/4405421-acting-cfpb-chief-suspends-supervision-of-companies-reports)
