---
title: "Coty's margin expansion offsets FX-impacted sales and profits"
date: "2025-02-11 00:54:36"
summary: "Coty (NYSE:COTY) shares are under modest selling pressure in Monday’s late trading, as softer-than-expected fiscal second quarter sales and a miss on profits were partially offset by the company’s ability to manage supply chain costs and strong discipline in employing promotional pricing. This contributed to a 170 basis point expansion..."
categories:
  - "seekalpha"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "seekalpha"
menu: ""
thumbnail: "https://static.seekingalpha.com/cdn/s3/uploads/getty_images/166240381/image_166240381.jpg"
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Coty (NYSE:[COTY](https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/COTY "Coty Inc.")) shares are under modest selling pressure in Monday’s late trading, as softer-than-expected fiscal second quarter sales and a miss on profits were partially offset by the company’s ability to manage supply chain costs and strong discipline in employing promotional pricing.

This contributed to a 170 basis point expansion in FQ2 adjusted gross margin to 66.8%, even while sales were down 3% to a below consensus $1.7B and profits were cut in half to $0.11 per share, missing Wall Street’s expectations for a profit of $0.21. Second quarter results were heavily impacted by the stronger U.S. dollar, which accounted for 2% of the decline in sales.

In Q2, adjusted EBITDA of $390.7M increased 7% year-over-year driving an adjusted EBITDA margin of 23.4%, expanding by 220 basis points year-over-year.

By category, robust growth in prestige and mass fragrances – which accounts for over 60% of total sales -- offset declines in cosmetics and body care. The Q2 reported sales reflected the further slowing of the mass beauty market, particularly color cosmetics, together with headwinds in the APAC region, namely China, travel retail in Asia, and Australia.

Given the complex retail demand environment, Coty (NYSE:[COTY](https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/COTY "Coty Inc.")) now assumes a broadly similar market environment entering FY26. However, several key brand initiatives and distribution opportunities planned for FY26 should support some gradual improvement in Coty's (NYSE:[COTY](https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/COTY "Coty Inc.")) like-for-like (“LFL”) sales growth.

The company anticipates gross margin expansion in FY25, and adjusted earnings to be between $0.50 and $0.52 per share, straddling the consensus estimates of $0.51 per share, along with solid gross margin expansion in FY25, fueled by the same levers that delivered margin expansion in FY24. Adjusted EBITDA margin is forecasted to expand by 70-90 basis points both in the second half of 2025 and FY25. This implies adjusted EBITDA growing in the low single digits to $1.115B to $1.125B.

Sales, however, will remain constrained by the strengthening U.S. dollar and expected to drive a more material FX headwind in the second half of the year of approximately 3%, resulting in FY25 reported sales declining in the low single digits.

“While the uncertain market environment may weigh on trends in the near term, our financial equation is now stronger than it has been in the last four years, and we will see outsized benefit from our healthier leverage levels and cash generation, which will fuel EPS growth and our Total Shareholder Return,” the company said in a statement.

[seekalpha](https://seekingalpha.com/news/4405788-cotys-margin-expansion-offsets-fx-impacted-sales-and-profits)
