---
title: "'Let's rip the waste out': Trump directs Treasury to stop minting new pennies"
date: "2025-02-10 14:06:18"
summary: "The days of the U.S. penny appear to be numbered after President Trump added to his cost-cutting agenda by instructing the Treasury Department to stop minting the coins. Any move is likely to require an act of Congress, but support could be there this time around. Countries like Canada, Australia..."
categories:
  - "seekalpha"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "seekalpha"
menu: ""
thumbnail: "https://static.seekingalpha.com/cdn/s3/uploads/getty_images/1154733645/image_1154733645.jpg"
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The days of the U.S. penny appear to be numbered after President Trump added to his [cost-cutting agenda](https://seekingalpha.com/news/4405423-trump-says-expects-doge-to-find-billions-in-waste-at-the-pentagon "cost-cutting agenda") by instructing the Treasury Department to stop minting the coins. Any move is likely to require an act of Congress, but support could be there this time around. Countries like Canada, Australia and New Zealand all stopped using one-cent pieces in recent decades, and further arguments can be made following years of inflation. 

*Penny saved:* The purpose of money is to make it easier to conduct commerce, so from that standpoint, pennies are not economically efficient. They waste a lot of time during transactions (paying or giving change) and aren't universally accepted everywhere (vending machines, toll booths, parking meters, etc.). Perhaps the biggest argument for abolishing the penny is that its production cost is triple what it's worth, and that's with cheaper zinc taking over as the dominant metal (95%) since 1982.

*Why has the U.S. held out until now?* There's the nostalgia aspect, as well as arguments that all price tags would be rounded up or could make sales tax difficult to calculate. The pro-penny lobby in D.C. has been funded by Artazn, the sole manufacturer of planchets used in the production of the coin. The company was once owned by Newell Brands ([NWL](https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/NWL "Newell Brands Inc.")), which happened to record its [largest daily percentage decline](https://seekingalpha.com/news/4405066-newell-brands-falls-after-setting-cautious-full-year-guidance "largest daily percentage decline") on Friday, but was sold to private equity firm One Rock Capital Partners in 2019. Private equity is also found on the other side of the money trail, with Apollo-owned (NYSE:[APO](https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/APO "Apollo Global Management, Inc.")) Coinstar recycling billions of pennies each year.

**Are nickels next?** There is a camp that wants to round things to the nearest 0, which would eliminate the next smallest coin in denomination - the nickel. Each of these costs 13.78 cents to mint, so it could make sense to do away with those as well from a price perspective. However, it has been quite a while since the U.S. withdrew any low-denomination coin. The last one to occur was in 1857, when the half-cent was discontinued by Congress.

***Wall Street Breakfast survey:*** Does it make "cents" to retire the penny? [Take the poll here](https://forms.gle/9patytjVdLeMq5sVA "Take the poll here") and share how it might impact markets in the comments section.

[seekalpha](https://seekingalpha.com/news/4405479-lets-rip-the-waste-out-trump-directs-treasury-to-stop-minting-new-pennies)
