---
title: "Arrow Electronics downgraded on challenging environment despite strong Q4: BofA"
date: "2025-02-08 16:00:33"
summary: "Arrow Electronics (NYSE:ARW) was downgraded to Underperform from Neutral by Bank of America Securities, despite the company reporting solid fourth quarter financial results on February 6. BofA also slashed its price target on the stock significantly to $99 from $133, a roughly 25% cut. Despite fourth quarter results topping estimates,..."
categories:
  - "seekalpha"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "seekalpha"
menu: ""
thumbnail: "https://static.seekingalpha.com/cdn/s3/uploads/getty_images/1072081530/image_1072081530.jpg"
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Arrow Electronics (NYSE:[ARW](https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/ARW "Arrow Electronics, Inc.")) was downgraded to Underperform from Neutral by Bank of America Securities, despite the company reporting solid fourth quarter [financial results](https://seekingalpha.com/news/4404369-arrow-electronics-beats-top-line-and-bottom-line-estimates-initiates-q1-outlook "financial results") on February 6.

BofA also slashed its price target on the stock significantly to $99 from $133, a roughly 25% cut.

Despite fourth quarter results topping estimates, the outlook fell short of market expectations.

"Guide for F1Q was meaningfully below on revenue and earnings (mid-point rev/EPS $6.3B/$1.40 vs. our prior $6.6B/$2.29 and ST $6.5bn/$1.99)," said BofA analysts, led by Ruplu Bhattacharya, in an investor note. "Part of the quarter-over-quarter decline in revenue and margins relates to seasonality in the ECS segment (but, more pronounced this year given the stronger than expected F4Q). The remaining relates to weakness in the Components segment margins as Europe (highest margin region remains weak) and given weakness in certain end markets."

Arrow Electronics CEO Sean Kerins said in the latest [earnings call](https://seekingalpha.com/article/4755798-arrow-electronics-inc-arw-q4-2024-earnings-call-transcript "earnings call") he believes the market is in the final innings of the industry's cyclical correction.

"Our Q1 guidance reflects a broader market still bouncing along the bottom," Kerins said. "But as we look beyond the first quarter to the balance of the full year, we're cautiously optimistic about an improving trajectory. We think the declining inventory levels will eventually support improved visibility and a modest recovery."

"Nevertheless, as we've suggested in prior quarters, a broader recovery will be predicated upon improving outlooks across our supplier base," he added.

"While management is seeing some datapoints that are encouraging, including improving book to bill (with two of three operating regions exiting 4Q at or near parity), and although excess inventory in the channel is gradually reducing, we see the next several quarters as weak, and move to an Underperform rating from Neutral," Bhattacharya said.

However, in the Enterprise Computing Solutions, or ECS, segment, BofA does identify "strength in hybrid cloud solutions, infrastructure software, including cybersecurity, and improving data center activity related to AI adoption."

"In enterprise computing solutions, we delivered year-over-year billings, gross profit, and operating income growth," Kerins said. "This strong performance reflects our alignment to the higher growth demand trends across enterprise IT along with our improving execution in North America."

Fourth quarter ECS sales increased 12% year over year.

Share prices for the Centennial, Colo.-based Arrow Electronics have steadily declined since late October 2024, losing about 21% in value over that time frame.

[seekalpha](https://seekingalpha.com/news/4405208-arrow-electronics-downgraded-on-challenging-environment-despite-strong-q4-bofa)
