---
title: "Tuesday's Economic Calendar"
date: "2025-02-11 08:00:00"
summary: "6:00 AM NFIB Small Business Optimism The National Federation of Independent Business Small Business Optimism Index is a composite of ten seasonally adjusted components indicating the health of small businesses in the U.S. The economists expect a reading of 104.7 in January, from 105.1 in December. 8:50 AM Fed's Hammack:..."
categories:
  - "seekalpha"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "seekalpha"
menu: ""
thumbnail: "https://static.seekingalpha.com/cdn/s3/uploads/getty_images/133962701/image_133962701.jpg"
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

**6:00 AM NFIB Small Business Optimism**   The National Federation of Independent Business Small Business Optimism Index is a composite of ten seasonally adjusted components indicating the health of small businesses in the U.S. The economists expect a reading of 104.7 in January, from 105.1 in December.    **8:50 AM Fed's Hammack: Economic Outlook**   Cleveland Federal Reserve Bank President Beth Hammack speaks on the economic outlook before the University of Kentucky Gatton School of Business and Economics 2025 Economic Outlook Conference.   **10:00 AM Powell testifies before Senate Banking Committee**   Federal Reserve Chairman Jerome Powell delivers a semiannual monetary policy report before the U.S. Senate Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.   **1:00 PM 3-Yr Note Auction**   The 3-year Treasury yield is the interest rate the U.S. government pays investors who purchase 10-year Treasury notes, also known as T-notes. The treasury will hold an auction of $58 Billion, 3-year note. US 3 Year Note Bond Yield was 4.31 percent on Monday, February 10, according to over-the-counter interbank yield quotes for this government bond maturity.   **3:30 PM Fed's Williams Speech**   New York Federal Reserve Bank President John Williams gives keynote remarks before the Pace University Economics Society.   Click [here](https://seekingalpha.com/news/4405430-weekly-economic-calender-focus-on-cpi-jobless-claims) to see the weekly economic calendar.

[seekalpha](https://seekingalpha.com/news/4405710-tuesdays-economic-calendar)
