---
title: "Elon Musk says he has not bid for TikTok's US business"
date: "2025-02-08 21:44:01"
summary: "Billionaire Elon Musk said he has not put in a bid to acquire the U.S. operations of ByteDance (BDNCE)-owned TikTok, which has found itself in the crosshairs of the U.S. government over national security concerns. \"I have not put in a bid for TikTok,\" Musk said at the WELT Economic..."
categories:
  - "seekalpha"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "seekalpha"
menu: ""
thumbnail: "https://static.seekingalpha.com/cdn/s3/uploads/getty_images/2194750964/image_2194750964.jpg"
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Billionaire Elon Musk said he has not put in a bid to acquire the U.S. operations of ByteDance ([BDNCE](https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/BDNCE "ByteDance"))-owned TikTok, which has found itself in the crosshairs of the U.S. government over national security concerns.

"I have not put in a bid for TikTok," Musk said at the WELT Economic Summit hosted by Mathias Doepfner, the chief executive of German media conglomerate AxelSpringer. "I don’t have any plans for what would I do if I had TikTok." 

Musk, who acquired the social media platform formerly known as Twitter in 2022, said it was rare for him to acquire companies.

"I usually build companies from scratch," said the CEO of X. "I’m not chomping at the bit to acquire TikTok."

Bloomberg had reported last month that Chinese officials were evaluating a potential option that would involve Musk's X taking control of the U.S. operations of TikTok.

On his first day in office, President Donald Trump signed an executive order delaying by 75 days the enforcement of the TikTok ban. However, Trump suggested that the U.S. government should be a half-owner of TikTok's U.S. business, and threatened to impose tariffs if China did not approve a U.S. deal with TikTok.

Trump has said he would be open to Musk, who donated over $250 million to the President's election campaign, buying TikTok. "I would be, if he wanted to buy it," Trump told reporters last month.

Trump had first called for a ban on TikTok in 2020, during his first term, but seems to have changed his mind during his 2024 election campaign, crediting the short video app with helping him win over younger voters. ByteDance CEO Shou Chew attended Trump's inauguration.

"I have been against a TikTok ban for a long time, because it goes against freedom of speech," Musk has previously stated. "That said, the current situation where TikTok is allowed to operate in America, but X is not allowed to operate in China is unbalanced."

[seekalpha](https://seekingalpha.com/news/4405378-elon-musk-says-he-has-not-bid-for-tiktoks-us-business)
