---
title: "Federal Judge prevents Musk's DOGE from accessing Treasury payment system"
date: "2025-02-09 17:05:33"
summary: "A federal judge early Saturday temporarily restricted Elon Musk’s Department of Government Efficiency from accessing a vital payment system that handles Americans’ tax returns, Social Security benefits, disability payments and the payroll for government employees. The order by U.S. District Judge Paul Engelmayer, an Obama appointee, prevents officials without security..."
categories:
  - "seekalpha"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "seekalpha"
menu: ""
thumbnail: "https://static.seekingalpha.com/cdn/s3/uploads/getty_images/157394940/image_157394940.jpg"
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

A federal judge early Saturday temporarily restricted Elon Musk’s Department of Government Efficiency from accessing a vital payment system that handles Americans’ tax returns, Social Security benefits, disability payments and the payroll for government employees.

The order by U.S. District Judge Paul Engelmayer, an Obama appointee, prevents officials without security clearances and background checks from accessing the Treasury Department payment system. The ruling said the restriction was needed to prevent the possible disclosure of confidential information.

A hearing on the issue, which includes access by political appointees and special government appointees, was set for Friday.

The White House said the court order was “judicial overreach,” CNN reported.

New York Attorney General Letitia James and 18 other blue-state attorneys general filed the lawsuit on Friday evening. They alleged that Musk’s DOGE initiative risks disrupting payments appropriated by Congress.

Judge Engelmayer said the states were likely to win on their arguments that the Trump administration went beyond legal boundaries in provided broader access to the payment system. The states could suffer irreparable harm without court intervention, including the possibility of being hacked, he also said.

The Treasury Department earlier said DOGE workers only were able to view content, not the ability to modify it, CNN reported.

[seekalpha](https://seekingalpha.com/news/4405414-federal-judge-prevents-elon-musks-doge-from-treasurys-payment-system)
