---
title: "The implications of a government cut off from media subscriptions"
date: "2025-02-07 22:12:48"
summary: "What would happen if the U.S. government were to lose all its media contracts? Without access to comprehensive resources like Bloomberg terminals, the federal government's operational efficiency could suffer. In the past week, the Trump administration reportedly ordered the General Services Administration (\"GSA\") to cancel \"every single media contract\" expensed..."
categories:
  - "seekalpha"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "seekalpha"
menu: ""
thumbnail: "https://static.seekingalpha.com/cdn/s3/uploads/getty_images/2192846550/image_2192846550.jpg"
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

What would happen if the U.S. government were to lose all its media contracts? Without access to comprehensive resources like Bloomberg terminals, the federal government's operational efficiency could suffer.

In the past week, the Trump administration reportedly ordered the General Services Administration ("GSA") to [cancel "every single media contract"](https://seekingalpha.com/news/4404697-key-government-agency-ordered-to-cancel-all-media-subscriptions-report "cancel \"every single media contract\"") expensed by the agency. The directive came after Elon Musk and his associates at the Department of Government Efficiency (DOGE) found millions of dollars in agency subscriptions to Politico Pro, a policy tracking service used widely in Washington.

The news coincides with actions by the newly created, Elon Musk-led DOGE to fulfill its mission of cutting down on wasteful and fraudulent federal spending. And it's no secret that Trump -- with his platform, Truth Social -- harbors a critical stance towards mainstream media.

Meanwhile, it's unclear whether the White House's order has taken effect.

The Treasury Department, the Department of Defense, the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Department of Energy and the Department of Commerce did not immediately respond to Seeking Alpha's request for comment.

The government relies on Bloomberg terminals -- each of which have an annual subscription tag of roughly $30K -- to assess a plethora of real-time financial and economic data to assess and keep track of the economy's health.

Since 2021, the Department of Defense has racked up more than $400M in PR and media publication spending. From there, the Department of Health and Human Services spent over $200M in media [spend](https://x.com/kylenabecker/status/1887586694137893046 "spend"), and the Trump-targeted GSA spent some $150M.

Without such tools, the government will "have to do all this work themselves and that means a new government data analysis department potentially to recreate what a US business is already providing a service for," said Aidan Charron, associate director of Global Earth Day. "It's like banning staff from using Google to try and recreate your own internal version of it."

Transitioning to alternative systems would likely take time and resources to kickstart things again.

Related tickers: Thomson Reuters ([TRI](https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/TRI "Thomson Reuters Corporation")), New York Times ([NYT](https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/NYT "The New York Times Company")), News Corp. ([NWS](https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/NWS "News Corporation")).

**Dear readers**: We recognize that politics often intersects with the financial news of the day, so we invite you to [click here to join the separate political discussion](https://seekingalpha.com/article/4752443-politics-and-the-markets-020725 "click here to join the separate political discussion").

[seekalpha](https://seekingalpha.com/news/4405177-the-implications-government-cut-off-from-media-subscriptions)
