---
title: "PennantPark Investment reports FQ1 results"
date: "2025-02-11 00:10:35"
summary: "PennantPark Investment press release (NYSE:PNNT): FQ1 Core net investment income per share of $0.20 Total investment income of $34.21M, vs. $34.34M a year ago Investment Income For the three months ended December 31, 2024, investment income was $34.2 million, which was attributable to $25.2 million from first lien secured debt,..."
categories:
  - "seekalpha"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "seekalpha"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

* PennantPark Investment [press release](https://seekingalpha.com/pr/19997274-pennantpark-investment-corporation-announces-financial-results-for-the-quarter-ended-december) (NYSE:[PNNT](https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/PNNT "PennantPark Investment Corporation")): FQ1 Core net investment income per share of $0.20
* Total investment income of $34.21M, vs. $34.34M a year ago
* Investment Income
  
  For the three months ended December 31, 2024, investment income was $34.2 million, which was attributable to $25.2 million from first lien secured debt, $2.0 million from second lien secured debt, $1.1 million from subordinated debt and $5.9 million from other investments, respectively. For the three months ended December 31, 2023, investment income was $34.3 million, which was attributable to $25.1 million from first lien secured debt, $2.6 million from second lien secured debt, $1.3 million from subordinated debt and $5.3 million from preferred and common equity, respectively. The decrease in investment income for the three months ended December 31, 2024 was primarily due to the changes in our portfolio and investment yields.
  
  Expenses
  
  For the three months ended December 31, 2024, expenses totaled $21.2 million and were comprised of $11.7 million of debt related interest and expenses, $4.3 million of base management fees, $2.8 million of incentive fees, $1.7 million of general and administrative expenses and $0.7 million of provision for excise taxes. For the three months ended December 31, 2023, expenses totaled $18.7 million, and were comprised of; $9.6 million of debt-related interest and expenses, $4.0 million of base management fees, $3.3 million of incentive fees, $1.4 million of general and administrative expenses and $0.4 million of provision for excise taxes. The increase in expenses for the three months ended December 31, 2024 was primarily due an increase in debt related interest and expenses.
  
  Net Investment Income
  
  For the three months ended December 31, 2024 and 2023, net investment income totaled $13.0 million, or $0.20 per share and $15.7 million, or $0.24 per share. The decrease in net investment income for the three months ended December 31, 2024 was primarily due to increase in interest expense.
  
  Net Realized Gains or Losses
  
  For the three months ended December 31, 2024 and 2023, net realized gains (losses) totaled $(2.6) million and $1.8 million, respectively. The change in realized gains (losses) was primarily due to changes in the market conditions of our investments and the values at which they were realized.
  
  Unrealized Appreciation or Depreciation on Investments and Debt
  
  For the three months ended December 31, 2024 and 2023, we reported net change in unrealized appreciation (depreciation) on investments of $2.4 million and $(5.0) million, respectively. As of December 31, 2024 and September 30, 2024, our net unrealized appreciation (depreciation) on investments totaled $13.6 million and $11.2 million, respectively. The net change in unrealized depreciation on our investments was primarily due to changes in the capital market conditions of our investments and the values at which they were realized.
* Shares -0.03%.

[seekalpha](https://seekingalpha.com/news/4405793-pennantpark-investment-reports-fq1-results)
