---
title: "Fluence Energy GAAP EPS of -$0.32 misses by $0.14, revenue of $186.79M misses by $186.73M"
date: "2025-02-11 00:25:18"
summary: "Fluence Energy press release (NASDAQ:FLNC): FQ1 GAAP EPS of -$0.32 misses by $0.14. Revenue of $186.79M (-48.7% Y/Y) misses by $186.73M. Fiscal Year 2025 Outlook The Company is lowering its fiscal year 2025 total revenue guidance range to $3.1 billion to $3.7 billion (midpoint $3.4 billion, vs. $3.91B consensus) from..."
categories:
  - "seekalpha"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "seekalpha"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

* Fluence Energy [press release](https://seekingalpha.com/pr/19997257-fluence-energy-inc-reports-first-quarter-2025-results-lowers-full-year-2025-guidance-reports) (NASDAQ:[FLNC](https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/FLNC "Fluence Energy, Inc.")): FQ1 GAAP EPS of -$0.32  misses by $0.14.
* Revenue of $186.79M (-48.7% Y/Y)  misses by $186.73M.
* Fiscal Year 2025 Outlook
  
  The Company is lowering its fiscal year 2025 total revenue guidance range to $3.1 billion to $3.7 billion (midpoint $3.4 billion, vs. $3.91B consensus) from its prior guidance of $3.6 billion to $4.4 billion (midpoint $4.0 billion). The $600 million reduction in revenue from the previous midpoint is primarily due to the timing of certain contracts in Australia that the Company now expects to sign later this year. The $3.4 billion midpoint of the revenue guidance range is approximately 85% covered by the current backlog plus revenue recognized year-to-date. Additionally, the Company is lowering its fiscal year 2025 Adjusted EBITDA1 range to $70 million to $100 million (midpoint $85 million) from its prior guidance of $160 million to $200 million (midpoint $180 million). The decrease in Adjusted EBITDA is primarily driven by lower expected revenue and lower expected gross margins on recently signed contracts. Finally, the Company is reaffirming its fiscal year 2025 annual recurring revenue ("ARR") guidance of approximately $145 million.
  
  "We have experienced customer-driven delays in signing certain contracts that, coupled with competitive pressures, result in the need to lower our fiscal year 2025 outlook. While these delays are disappointing, we continue to see a very robust utility scale battery storage market globally and strong interest in our U.S. domestic content product offering in particular, as evidenced by our record $5.1 billion backlog. Importantly, we are executing plans to maintain our leadership position, differentiate our product, and optimize our cost structure, which we expect will drive improved financial performance in fiscal year 2026 and beyond," said Julian Nebreda, Fluence's Chief Executive Officer.
  
  "In December, we successfully raised $400 million of 2.25% Convertible Senior Notes due 2030, providing us with increased financial flexibility and a stronger financial foundation to support our growing business. This additional capital helps us to achieve key milestones and accelerate our domestic content strategy which we see as a strong competitive advantage," said Ahmed Pasha, Fluence's Chief Financial Officer.

[seekalpha](https://seekingalpha.com/news/4405811-fluence-energy-gaap-eps-of-0_32-misses-by-0_14-revenue-of-186_79m-misses-by-186_73m)
