---
title: "EU proposes reduction in import tariff on U.S. vehicles - report"
date: "2025-02-07 22:16:59"
summary: "To avert a costly trade war with the U.S., the European Union will reportedly offer a reduction in its import tax on U.S. vehicles to more closely align with the 2.5% charged by the U.S., according to the Financial Times. The EU currently slaps a 10% tax on cars imported..."
categories:
  - "seekalpha"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "seekalpha"
menu: ""
thumbnail: "https://static.seekingalpha.com/cdn/s3/uploads/getty_images/969035810/image_969035810.jpg"
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

To avert a costly trade war with the U.S., the European Union will reportedly offer a reduction in its import tax on U.S. vehicles to more closely align with the 2.5% charged by the U.S., according to the Financial Times.

The EU currently slaps a 10% tax on cars imported into the continent from the U.S.

“We can try to have a deal before escalating costs and tariffs,” said Bernd Lange, head of the European Parliament’s trade committee to the Financial Times. “The bloc would offer to buy more liquefied natural gas and military equipment from the US, plus also look to lower tariffs for cars,” he added.

The lowered tax rate would not just apply to U.S. imports, but those imported from other countries as well, including China, as World Trade Organization rules require “bound tariffs” resulting in a 10% across the board tariff for all imported cars into the EU. This excludes China’s electric vehicles, which are taxed at 35% because of uncompetitive Chinese subsidies on the EV industry.

When asked if the U.S. plans to address the $131.3B trade imbalance between the EU and U.S., President Trump said, “Absolutely. They don’t take our cars, they don’t take our farm products, essentially, they don’t take almost anything. And we have a tremendous deficit with the European Union. So, we’ll be doing something very substantial with the European Union.”

According to 2022 industry data, the European Union imports just 271K vehicles from the U.S. versus 738K exported to the U.S., making the U.S. the second-largest market for EU vehicles after the UK.

Should President Trump go ahead with imposing a 10% tax on European imports, the EU plans to retaliate with its “anti-coercion instrument” or ACI, which would allow the EU to target U.S. tech companies.

The ACI allows the EU to impose restrictions on trade in services to address another county’s use of tariffs to force changes in trade policy. By using the ACI, the EU can revoke intellectual property protections, block foreign investment, and restrict access to EU banks and financial service entities.

**Dear readers:** We recognize that politics often intersects with the financial news of the day, so we invite you to click [here](https://seekingalpha.com/article/4752443-politics-and-the-markets-020725#hasComeFromMpArticle " here ") to join the separate political discussion.

[seekalpha](https://seekingalpha.com/news/4405262-eu-proposes-reduction-in-import-tariff-on-u-s-vehicles-report)
