---
title: "Chefs' Warehouse soars after topping $1B in quarterly revenue for the first time"
date: "2025-02-12 19:44:16"
summary: "Chefs' Warehouse (NASDAQ:CHEF) rallied on Wednesday after releasing a Q4 earnings report that showed strong financial performance and growth. The Connecticut-based company reported an 8.7% increase in sales to $1.03 billion, which marked the first billion-plus revenue quarter in its history. GAAP net income rose to $23.9 million, or $0.55..."
categories:
  - "seekalpha"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "seekalpha"
menu: ""
thumbnail: "https://static.seekingalpha.com/cdn/s3/uploads/getty_images/1397937755/image_1397937755.jpg"
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Chefs' Warehouse (NASDAQ:[CHEF](https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/CHEF "The Chefs' Warehouse, Inc.")) rallied on Wednesday after releasing a Q4 earnings report that showed strong financial performance and growth. The Connecticut-based company reported an 8.7% increase in sales to $1.03 billion, which marked the first billion-plus revenue quarter in its history.

GAAP net income rose to $23.9 million, or $0.55 per diluted share, compared to $16.0 million, or $0.38 per diluted share, in Q4 2023. The EPS tally beat the consensus expectation by $0.04. Adjusted EBITDA also saw significant growth, reaching $68.2 million, up from $59.0 million in the same quarter last year.

Chefs' Warehouse (CHF) pointed to strong business activity and demand throughout the quarter, particularly from its core upscale-casual to higher-end dining customer base. Organic case count in the specialty category increased by 6.1%, with unique customers and placements growing by 4.5% and 12.3% respectively. The center-of-the-plate category saw an organic pound sales increase of 3.6%.

Gross profit increased by 9.8% to $251.0 million, with margins improving by 23 basis points to 24.3%. Selling, general and administrative expenses rose by 8.9% to $206.8 million, remaining stable at 20.0% of net sales. Operating income improved to $46.5 million, or 4.5% of net sales, compared to $38.2 million, or 4.0% of net sales a year ago.

Looking ahead, Chefs' Warehouse (NASDAQ:[CHEF](https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/CHEF "The Chefs' Warehouse, Inc.")) guided for 2025 net sales of between $3.94 billion and $4.04 billion, gross profit between $951 million and $976 million, and adjusted EBITDA between $233 million and $246 million.

On Wall Street, analysts said the company's earnings performance reflected its ability to capitalize on a healthy dining environment and effectively serve its customer base, positioning it well for continued success in the coming year.

Shares of Chef's Warehouse ([CHEF](https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/CHEF "The Chefs' Warehouse, Inc.")) rallied 12.2% in late Wednesday morning trading. The food dsitribution stock is now up more than 75% over the last 52 weeks.

[seekalpha](https://seekingalpha.com/news/4406946-chefs-warehouse-soars-after-topping-1b-in-quarterly-revenue-for-the-first-time)
