---
title: "JPMorgan Chase COO sees Q1 investment banking fees up mid-teens Y/Y"
date: "2025-02-11 21:49:21"
summary: "\"Pipelines are healthy,\" and \"deal flow has continued,\" said JPMorgan Chase (NYSE:JPM) Chief Operating Officer Jennifer Piepszak on Tuesday. \"Right now, we see investment banking fees up mid-teens year-over-year,\" for Q1 2025. she said during the Bank of America Financial Services Conference. She's expecting the bank will see \"a real..."
categories:
  - "seekalpha"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "seekalpha"
menu: ""
thumbnail: "https://static.seekingalpha.com/cdn/s3/uploads/getty_images/171292089/image_171292089.jpg"
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

"Pipelines are healthy," and "deal flow has continued," said JPMorgan Chase (NYSE:[JPM](https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/JPM "JPMorgan Chase & Co.")) Chief Operating Officer Jennifer Piepszak on Tuesday. "Right now, we see investment banking fees up mid-teens year-over-year," for Q1 2025. she said during the Bank of America Financial Services Conference.

She's expecting the bank will see "a real resurgence in IPOs year-over-year."

Debt capital markets issues have "remained very good." JPMorgan (NYSE:[JPM](https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/JPM "JPMorgan Chase & Co.")) is still optimistic that M&A "should be a tailwind for us." On the market side, momentum should "remain on our side." For markets, she estimates low-double digit growth year-over-year, as of Feb. 11.

Regarding the commercial bank, lending demand has remained muted. "A wait-and-see approach is likely weighing on loan demand," she said. On commercial real estate, "perhaps there are green shoots:" That sector will depend on a more stable and lower rate outlook. CRE has seen activity increasing "a bit" year-over-year in San Francico and New York. Multifamily is still in high demand, Piepszak said.

In building its payments business, JPMorgan Chase ([JPM](https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/JPM "JPMorgan Chase & Co.")) will continue to focus on product gaps in the payments business, she said. It's working on making more progress with corporates and in geographic expansion. "We have to invest market-by-market, whether it's Mexico or China," she said.

Piepszak also said [her decision to take herself out](https://seekingalpha.com/news/4394964-jpmorgan-chases-new-coo-isnt-gunning-for-ceo-spot-report " her decision to take herself out ") of consideration for CEO succession was a "life choice decision" on her part. "We have an enormous deep bench" for potential successors to JPMorgan Chase ([JPM](https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/JPM "JPMorgan Chase & Co.")) Chairman and CEO Jamie Dimon, she added.

Her new  [role as COO](https://seekingalpha.com/news/4394895-jpmorgan-coo-to-retire-jennifer-piepszak-appointed-to-the-post " role as COO ") is "a real opportunity to have direct responsibility but also to engage across the company," Piepszak said. She is part of the Wall Street firm's operating committee, which helps set the bank's strategic agenda.

Even with all the changes and potential changes coming from the Trump administration "taking up all the oxygen", "the underlying economic environment is still very strong," she said. Clients are expressing optimism but also some caution.

"We still don't know where a lot of this is going to land," Piepszak said. "What we're hopeful is that this is an opportunity for a real, coherent framework... and that we have a rational framework to operate in."

JPMorgan ([JPM](https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/JPM "JPMorgan Chase & Co.")) stock rose 1.2% in afternoon trading.

[seekalpha](https://seekingalpha.com/news/4406319-jpmorgan-chase-coo-sees-q1-investment-banking-fees-up-mid-teens-yy)
