---
title: "Biggest stock movers Wednesday: KHC, SMCI, UPST, Lyft, and more"
date: "2025-02-12 18:09:20"
summary: "Stock futures edged lower on Wednesday, with the Dow Jones sliding 400 points, while Treasury yields climbed after January's hotter-than-expected CPI report renewed inflation concerns. Here are some of Wednesday's biggest stock movers: Biggest stock gainers Super Micro Computer (NASDAQ:SMCI) shares climbed over 8% despite missing expectations in its FQ2..."
categories:
  - "seekalpha"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "seekalpha"
menu: ""
thumbnail: "https://static.seekingalpha.com/cdn/s3/uploads/getty_images/1317587887/image_1317587887.jpg"
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Stock futures edged lower on Wednesday, with the Dow Jones sliding 400 points, while Treasury yields climbed after January's hotter-than-expected CPI report renewed inflation concerns.

Here are some of Wednesday's biggest stock movers:

Biggest stock gainers
---------------------

* Super Micro Computer (NASDAQ:[SMCI](https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/SMCI "Super Micro Computer, Inc.")) shares climbed over 8% despite missing expectations in its FQ2 preliminary results. The company reported adjusted earnings between $0.58 and $0.60 per share, with a midpoint of $0.59 falling short of the $0.61 consensus. Revenue surged 54% Y/Y to a range of $5.6B-$5.7B, with the $5.65B midpoint below the $5.77B estimate. Looking ahead, the company expects FQ3 adjusted earnings between $0.46 and $0.62 per share and revenue between $5B and $6B, both below the consensus. Additionally, Super Micro aims to file its 2024 annual report by Feb. 25, along with its delayed quarterly reports for September and December 2024, following an internal review prompted by accusations of improper accounting. Management expressed confidence in achieving $40B revenue for FY2026, supported by increased production capacity and strong customer engagements for new GPU platforms.
* Upstart (NASDAQ:[UPST](https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/UPST "Upstart Holdings, Inc.")) shares surged 26% after the AI-driven lending platform posted stronger-than-expected 4Q24 results, driven by a sharp rise in loan originations, and provided an upbeat outlook. The company originated 245,663 loans totaling $2.1B, marking a 68% Y/Y and 33% Q/Q increase, with its conversion rate improving to 19.3% from 11.6% in 4Q23. For FY2025, Upstart projects revenue of approximately $1B, exceeding the $823.1M consensus, with ~$920M from fees and ~$80M from net interest income. It also anticipates an adjusted EBITDA margin of ~18%, above the 13% estimate from Visible Alpha. For 1Q25, Upstart expects revenue of ~$200M (vs. $184.6M consensus) and adjusted EBITDA of ~$27M, far surpassing the $10.7M Visible Alpha consensus.
* DoorDash (NASDAQ:[DASH](https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/DASH "DoorDash, Inc.")) shares climbed 6% after the company posted strong Q4 results, with robust revenue and order growth. The food delivery platform reported 685M orders, a 19% Y/Y increase, surpassing the 671.5M consensus. Marketplace gross order value rose 21% to $21.3B, beating the $20.9B forecast. Revenue grew 25% Y/Y to $2.9B, slightly ahead of the $2.84B consensus, while adjusted EBITDA increased to $566M from $533M a year ago. For Q1, DoorDash projects Marketplace GOV between $22.6B and $23B, with adjusted EBITDA ranging from $550M to $600M, assuming stable foreign exchange rates and continued investment in new categories and international expansion.
* Shares of Gilead (NASDAQ:[GILD](https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/GILD "Gilead Sciences, Inc.")) rose over 4% after the company posted strong Q4 results, issued an upbeat outlook, and raised its dividend. For FY2025, Gilead projected non-GAAP EPS of $7.70 to $8.10, with a midpoint of $7.90, topping the $7.60 consensus. Revenue guidance came in between $28.2B and $28.6B, compared to analysts' expectations of $28.41B. The company also increased its quarterly dividend by 2.6% to $0.79 per share, payable on March 28 to shareholders of record as of March 14.
* CVS Health ([CVS](https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/CVS "CVS Health Corporation")) surged 15% after the healthcare giant [surpassed Q4 expectations](https://seekingalpha.com/news/4406692-cvs-health-stock-jumps-q4-beat "surpassed Q4 expectations"), driven by strong performance in its insurance arm, Aetna, and pharmacy network. The Healthcare Benefits segment [grew 23.3% Y/Y](https://seekingalpha.com/news/4406715-cvs-health-in-charts-health-care-benefits-segment-revenues-soars-233-yy-in-q4 "grew 23.3% Y/Y"), while the Pharmacy & Consumer Wellness segment increased 7.5% Y/Y. However, revenue from the Health Services segment declined 4.3%. Looking ahead, CVS projected adjusted EPS of $5.75–$6.00, aligning with the consensus of $5.97.

Biggest stock losers
--------------------

* Lyft (NASDAQ:[LYFT](https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/LYFT "Lyft, Inc.")) shares plunged nearly 11% despite posting a strong Q4 with record bookings and a double-digit rise in active riders, as investors reacted to softer-than-expected Q1 guidance. Gross bookings grew 15% Y/Y to $4.3B, slightly below the $4.32B estimate, while total rides rose 15% to 218.5M, aligning with expectations. Active riders reached a record 24.7M, up 10% Y/Y, and driver preference for Lyft improved, with a 16-percentage-point advantage over a competing ride-sharing app due to features like delay pay and out-of-way pay. Looking ahead, Lyft anticipates a slower Q1 due to the Leap Year calendar shift and extreme winter weather, forecasting mid-teen ride growth and gross bookings of $4.05B-$4.20B, falling short of the $4.23B consensus. Adjusted EBITDA is expected to be between $90M and $95M, vs. the $93.7M consensus. The company also announced its first-ever $500M share buyback program.
* Kraft Heinz ([KHC](https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/KHC "The Kraft Heinz Company")) shares lost up to 5% after delivering [mixed Q4](https://seekingalpha.com/news/4406686-kraft-heinz-falls-to-near-its-52-week-low-after-its-profit-outlook-disappoints "mixed Q4") results, with revenue missing expectations and organic sales declining 3.1%. Volume/mix fell 4.1 percentage points Y/Y, reflecting broad-based weakness across all segments, primarily due to shifting consumer preferences amid economic uncertainty and weaker demand in the U.S. Away From Home channel. The company also issued a weaker-than-expected outlook, forecasting full-year organic sales growth between 0% and -2.5% and projecting adjusted EPS of $2.63 to $2.74, below the $3.04 consensus**.**

[seekalpha](https://seekingalpha.com/news/4406636-biggest-stock-movers-wednesday-smci-upst-lyft-and-more)
