---
title: "Musk-led bid aimed at slowing down OpenAI's capital raising process: Wedbush"
date: "2025-02-11 19:27:33"
summary: "Wedbush views the unsolicited $97.4B bid by a group led by Elon Musk for the non-profit that controls OpenAI as not competitive, and aimed at slowing down the startup's capital raising process. \"We note this is just the latest move from Musk in its battle with OpenAI and Altman and..."
categories:
  - "seekalpha"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "seekalpha"
menu: ""
thumbnail: "https://static.seekingalpha.com/cdn/s3/uploads/getty_images/2184585949/image_2184585949.jpg"
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Wedbush views the unsolicited $97.4B bid by a group led by Elon Musk for the non-profit that controls OpenAI as not competitive, and aimed at slowing down the startup's capital raising process.

"We note this is just the latest move from Musk in its battle with OpenAI and Altman and we view this bid as not competitive but with the intention to slow down the OpenAI capital raising process as the Board now has to look at this bid even though the valuation is likely closer to $300 billion," said Analysts led by Daniel Ives.

OpenAI's CEO Sam Altman had responded to the unsolicited [$97.4B bid](https://seekingalpha.com/news/4405782-musk-led-group-makes-unsolicited-974b-bid-for-nonprofit-that-controls-openai-report "$97.4B bid") by saying that OpenAI was [not for sale](https://seekingalpha.com/news/4405988-openai-chief-restates-company-not-for-sale-after-elon-musk-led-bid "not for sale").

The current feud comes on the heels of a long tussle between Tesla ([TSLA](https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/TSLA "Tesla, Inc.")) CEO Musk and Altman. OpenAI started as a research lab in 2015 and in 2019 transformed into a startup. Musk was among the co-founders of OpenAI, along with Altman.

"The AI Arms Race is heating up in Big Tech and OpenAI has a very strong market position which poses a risk to other tech players including Musk. We would expect the OpenAI Board to formally reject this bid and continue its capital-raising process although the Musk-led bid is a fly in the ointment for Altman and OpenAI," said Ives and his team.

Last year in December, Microsoft (NASDAQ:[MSFT](https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/MSFT "Microsoft Corporation"))-backed OpenAI [revealed](https://seekingalpha.com/news/4391191-openai-mulls-plans-around-for-profit-structure-to-propel-chatgpt-maker "revealed") plans to change the company structure that would create a money-making corporation along with a nonprofit arm. OpenAI's existing for-profit arm is currently controlled by its nonprofit organization.

OpenAI has raised billions of dollars in funding. In October 2024, OpenAI raised about $6.6B in new funding from investors including Microsoft and Nvidia ([NVDA](https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/NVDA "NVIDIA Corporation")) giving it a valuation of $157B. Earlier this month, it was [reported](https://seekingalpha.com/news/4405146-softbank-may-invest-40b-into-openai-report "reported") that SoftBank ([OTCPK:SFTBY](https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/SFTBY "SoftBank Group Corp.")) could invest up to $40B in OpenAI over two years, which would value the company at around $260B.

Musk filed a lawsuit against OpenAI and Sam Altman last year for allegedly putting profit ahead of benefiting humanity.

The analysts added that with Musk’s existing lawsuits against OpenAI to block the company's transition to a for-profit entity, Altman and Musk’s current feud continues to heat up as this battle heads to court with the judges now deciding if the company is fulfilling its non-profit mission of developing AI to benefit humanity rather than focus on making money.

Ives and his team noted that Altman promptly rejected the bid and re-stated how OpenAI was not for sale, especially as the company is in the middle of raising significant capital to fund operations further and fulfill current demand for AI.

[seekalpha](https://seekingalpha.com/news/4406179-musk-led-bid-aimed-at-slowing-down-openais-capital-raising-process-wedbush)
