---
title: "Angi breaks even in Q4, sets modest goals for FY25"
date: "2025-02-12 01:11:45"
summary: "Home improvement and service platform Angi (NASDAQ:ANGI) broke even in the fourth quarter from a loss of a penny a year earlier, giving shares a lift in after-hours trading after a four-day losing streak during the regular session. Revenue generated from ads and leads fell 13% from a year ago,..."
categories:
  - "seekalpha"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "seekalpha"
menu: ""
thumbnail: "https://static.seekingalpha.com/cdn/s3/uploads/getty_images/1840366193/image_1840366193.jpg"
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Home improvement and service platform Angi (NASDAQ:[ANGI](https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/ANGI "Angi Inc.")) broke even in the fourth quarter from a loss of a penny a year earlier, giving shares a lift in after-hours trading after a four-day losing streak during the regular session.

Revenue generated from ads and leads fell 13% from a year ago, while services revenue was down 5%, resulting in a 12% decline in domestic revenue. International revenue improved by 5%, leading to a consolidated decline of 11% in total revenue to $267.9M, missing the consensus estimate by $13M. Adjusted EBITDA fell 23% to $32M driven primarily by the recovery in Q4 2023 of $11M of previously incurred legal fees.

The company also said there were 16% fewer service requests in the fourth quarter, 4% fewer monetized transactions, but a 14% increase in monetized transactions per service request.

Within each segment, Ads and Leads’ operating income increased 21% to $28.7M reflecting lower consumer marketing expenses on improved efficiencies and lower sales-related expenses, partially offset by 13% lower revenue and a $10.9M benefit from insurance coverage for previously incurred legal fees.

Operating loss for its Services segment swelled by 268% to ($7.1M) on lower revenue, higher amortization of intangibles, and $3.4M lower depreciation tied to capitalized software assets.

For the current quarter, Angi (NASDAQ:[ANGI](https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/ANGI "Angi Inc.")) expects operating income to break even and adjusted EBITDA to decrease to $20M versus $2M and $32M in Q4, respectively. For all of 2025, operating income is seen reaching $25M to $60M and adjusted EBITDA of $135M to $150M compared to $145M in 2024.

Additionally, last month IAC Inc. ([IAC](https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/IAC "IAC Inc.")) announced its Board of Directors approved a plan to spin off IAC's full stake in Angi (NASDAQ:[ANGI](https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/ANGI "Angi Inc.")) to IAC shareholders. The transaction is expected to close in the first half of 2025 but no sooner than March 31, 2025.

[seekalpha](https://seekingalpha.com/news/4406511-angi-breaks-even-q4-sets-modest-goals-fy25)
