---
title: "Federal Reserve won't hurry to adjust policy rate, Powell repeats in Congress testimony"
date: "2025-02-11 18:11:44"
summary: "The Federal Reserve does not need to be in a hurry to adjust its rate further now that its policy stance is significantly less restrictive than it was a few months ago, Fed Chair Jerome Powell said on Tuesday in testimony to the Senate Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban..."
categories:
  - "seekalpha"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "seekalpha"
menu: ""
thumbnail: "https://static.seekingalpha.com/cdn/s3/uploads/getty_images/2160718928/image_2160718928.jpg"
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The Federal Reserve does not need to be in a hurry to adjust its rate further now that its policy stance is significantly less restrictive than it was a few months ago, Fed Chair Jerome Powell said on Tuesday in testimony to the Senate Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs, according to his opening statement.

"We know that reducing policy restraint too fast or too much could hinder progress on inflation," he said. "At the same time, reducing policy restraint too slowly or too little could unduly weaken economic activity and employment."

If the economy stays strong and inflation doesn't continue to move toward the Fed's 2% goal, "we can maintain policy restraint for longer," he added as part of the semiannual monetary policy report to Congress. But the central bank also needs to be attentive to risks on both sides of its dual mandate. "If the labor market were to weaken unexpectedly or inflation were to fall more quickly than anticipated, we can ease policy accordingly."

Powell reaffirmed that the Fed will maintain its 2% inflation goal when it reviews its longer-run goals and monetary policy strategy framework.

In the conclusion of his statement, he [said](https://www.federalreserve.gov/newsevents/testimony/powell20250211a.htm "said"), "we will do everything we can to achieve the two goals Congress set for monetary policy — maximum employment and stable prices. We remain committed to supporting maximum employment, bringing inflation sustainably to our 2 percent goal, and keeping longer-term inflation expectations well anchored."

In his economic assessment, Powell said the economy continues to expand at "a solid pace," labor conditions remain "solid" and appear to have stabilized, and inflation has eased significantly over the past two years but remains "somewhat elevated." (Added 10:14 AM ET)

Breaking news... check back for updates.

**Dear readers:** We recognize that politics often intersects with the financial news of the day, so we invite you to click [here to join the separate political discussion.](https://seekingalpha.com/article/4752449-politics-and-the-markets-021125 "here to join the separate political discussion.")

[seekalpha](https://seekingalpha.com/news/4406157-federal-reserve-wont-hurry-to-adjust-policy-rate-powell-repeats-in-congress-testimony)
