---
title: "Intel in focus as Baird posits fab spin-off, Taiwan Semiconductor involvement"
date: "2025-02-12 23:03:59"
summary: "Intel (NASDAQ:INTC) was in focus on Wednesday as investment firm Baird said it has heard discussions from the supply chain in Asia about a potential spin-off of its foundry unit, with possible involvement by Taiwan Semiconductor (NYSE:TSM). Intel shares rose 6% in late afternoon trading. The discussion involved Taiwan Semiconductor..."
categories:
  - "seekalpha"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "seekalpha"
menu: ""
thumbnail: "https://static.seekingalpha.com/cdn/s3/uploads/getty_images/1831946092/image_1831946092.jpg"
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Intel (NASDAQ:[INTC](https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/INTC "Intel Corporation")) was in focus on Wednesday as investment firm Baird said it has heard discussions from the supply chain in Asia about a potential spin-off of its foundry unit, with possible involvement by Taiwan Semiconductor (NYSE:[TSM](https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/TSM "Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company Limited")).

Intel shares rose 6% in late afternoon trading.

The discussion involved Taiwan Semiconductor sending engineers to Intel's fab (slated to produce 3 and 2 nanometer sizes) in an effort to improve the know-how and ensure the fab and subsequent manufacturing projects from Intel become viable, Baird analyst Tristan Gerra wrote in a note to clients.

Gerra, who has a Neutral rating on Intel, added that the fab could be spun off into a new entity that is jointly owned by Taiwan Semiconductor and Intel, but run by Taiwan Semiconductor. The new entity would receive U.S. CHIPs Act funding, he added.

"While there is no confirmation and potential completion of this project could be lengthy, we think this move makes sense, further building on Intel prior CEO's focus on the company's core competency, manufacturing," Gerra wrote in the note. "Going forward, Intel would benefit from significant cash flow relief, and would focus on design and platform solutions going forward, while a viable fab could finally attract key fabless companies to diversify into a geo-dependable manufacturing model."

Intel did not respond to requests for comment from Seeking Alpha. Taiwan Semiconductor declined to comment.

The speculation comes as Vice President J.D. Vance said earlier this week that the most advanced artificial intelligence chips would be made in America, which resulted in a [sizable gain](https://seekingalpha.com/news/4406221-intel-gains-as-vp-vance-says-ai-chips-will-be-made-in-us "sizable gain") for Intel shares.

*(This story has been updated with Taiwan Semiconductor's response.)*

[seekalpha](https://seekingalpha.com/news/4406832-intel-in-focus-as-baird-posits-fab-spin-off-taiwan-semiconductor-involvement)
