---
title: "Coca-Cola beats top-line and bottom-line estimates; initiates Q1 and FY25 outlook"
date: "2025-02-11 14:58:45"
summary: "Coca-Cola press release (NYSE:KO): Q4 Non-GAAP EPS of $0.55 beats by $0.03. Revenue of $11.5B (+6.5% Y/Y) beats by $800M. Organic Revenues (Non-GAAP) Grew 14% for the Quarter. Global Unit Case Volume Grew 2% for the Quarter and 1% for the Full Year. Comparable Currency Neutral Operating Income (Non-GAAP) Grew..."
categories:
  - "seekalpha"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "seekalpha"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

* Coca-Cola [press release](https://seekingalpha.com/pr/19997697-coca-cola-reports-fourth-quarter-and-full-year-2024-results) (NYSE:[KO](https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/KO "The Coca-Cola Company")): Q4 Non-GAAP EPS of $0.55  beats by $0.03.
* Revenue of $11.5B (+6.5% Y/Y)  beats by $800M. Organic Revenues (Non-GAAP) Grew 14% for the Quarter.
* Global Unit Case Volume Grew 2% for the Quarter and 1% for the Full Year.
* Comparable Currency Neutral Operating Income (Non-GAAP) Grew 22% for the Quarter.
* For the full year, cash flow from operations and free cash flow (non-GAAP) were $6.8 billion and $4.7 billion, respectively.
* Free cash flow excluding the IRS tax litigation deposit (non-GAAP) was $10.8 billion, an increase of $1.0 billion versus the prior year.
* **Company Provides 2025 Financial Outlook:**
* Full Year 2025
  
  The company expects to deliver organic revenue (non-GAAP) growth of 5% to 6%.
  
  For comparable net revenues (non-GAAP), the company expects a 3% to 4% currency headwind based on the current rates and including the impact of hedged positions, in addition to a slight headwind from acquisitions, divestitures and structural changes.
  
  The company’s underlying effective tax rate (non-GAAP) is estimated to be 20.8% versus 18.6% in 2024. This includes the impact of several countries enacting the global minimum tax regulations and does not include the impact of ongoing tax litigation with the IRS, if the company were not to prevail.
  
  The company expects to deliver comparable currency neutral EPS (non-GAAP) growth of 8% to 10%.
  
  The company expects comparable EPS (non-GAAP) growth of 2% to 3%, versus $2.88 in 2024 **vs. estimated growth of 3.43% Y/Y**.
  
  Comparable EPS (non-GAAP) percentage growth is expected to include a 6% to 7% currency headwind based on the current rates and including the impact of hedged positions, in addition to a slight headwind from acquisitions, divestitures and structural changes.
  
  The company expects to generate free cash flow excluding the fairlife contingent consideration payment (non-GAAP) of approximately $9.5 billion. This consists of cash flow from operations excluding the fairlife contingent consideration payment (non-GAAP) of approximately $11.7 billion, less capital expenditures of approximately $2.2 billion.
  
  **First Quarter 2025 Considerations**
  
  Comparable net revenues (non-GAAP) are expected to include a 3% to 4% currency headwind based on the current rates and including the impact of hedged positions, in addition to a 2% to 3% headwind from acquisitions, divestitures and structural changes.
  
  Comparable EPS (non-GAAP) percentage growth is expected to include a 5% to 6% currency headwind based on the current rates and including the impact of hedged positions, in addition to a 2% to 3% headwind from acquisitions, divestitures and structural changes.
  
  The first quarter has two fewer days compared to first quarter 2024.

[seekalpha](https://seekingalpha.com/news/4406016-coca-cola-beats-top-line-and-bottom-line-estimates-initiates-q1-and-fy25-outlook)
