---
title: "Meta stock notches a seventeen-day winning streak in a record trading spell"
date: "2025-02-12 01:42:35"
summary: "Shares of Meta Platforms (NASDAQ:META) have closed in green for 17 straight sessions and have gained 17% over the last 16 trading sessions. The social media and tech giant closed +0.3% at $719.80 on Tuesday on the Nasdaq, hovering near its 52-week high of $725.01. The stock has gained nearly..."
categories:
  - "seekalpha"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "seekalpha"
menu: ""
thumbnail: "https://static.seekingalpha.com/cdn/s3/uploads/getty_images/92439657/image_92439657.jpg"
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Shares of Meta Platforms (NASDAQ:[META](https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/META "Meta Platforms, Inc.")) have closed in green for 17 straight sessions and have gained 17% over the last 16 trading sessions.

The social media and tech giant closed +0.3% at $719.80 on Tuesday on the Nasdaq, hovering near its 52-week high of $725.01. The stock has gained nearly 22% in value since the beginning of the year.

Meta has closed in the red for just five trading days since the year began. In the last 30 days, the stock has rallied nearly 20%, outperforming the benchmark S&P index's 5% rise.

Seeking Alpha's Quant rating system has given Meta a "Hold" rating with a score of 3.46 out of 5.

The Menlo Park, California-based company has been graded A+ for profitability and A for momentum, while its growth and valuation prospects have been graded C and F, respectively.

Turning to the Wall Street community, 42 analysts have given META a "Strong Buy," while 12 have rated it a "Buy." Seven analysts have given the stock a "Hold" recommendation, and two have rated it "Sell."

At least 13 analysts on Seeking Alpha have rated the stock "buy" or higher since the company reported fourth-quarter results, where it topped forecasts for revenues, profit, and users.

CEO Mark Zuckerberg is pivoting the social media giant into an artificial intelligence powerhouse, led by his plans to invest $60B to $65B to build out the AI infrastructure. Recent media reports have suggested the company is planning to launch several AI wearables this year and is also looking to buy AI startup FuriosaAI to reduce its dependence on NVIDIA for chips amid a supply crunch.

[seekalpha](https://seekingalpha.com/news/4406535-meta-stock-notches-a-seventeen-day-winning-streak-in-a-record-trading-spell)
