---
title: "Apple Intelligence provides small boost as iPhone SE 4 prepares to launch: Morgan Stanley"
date: "2025-02-11 17:29:53"
summary: "Apple (NASDAQ:AAPL) is expected to release its new iPhone SE 4 this week, possibly as soon as today, which will be its most affordable smartphone with artificial intelligence functions. The iPhone SE 4 will include a 6.1-inch AMOLED display, Face ID instead of a home button, 8GB of DRAM, an..."
categories:
  - "seekalpha"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "seekalpha"
menu: ""
thumbnail: "https://static.seekingalpha.com/cdn/s3/uploads/getty_images/458644979/image_458644979.jpg"
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Apple (NASDAQ:[AAPL](https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/AAPL "Apple Inc.")) is expected to release its new iPhone SE 4 this week, possibly as soon as today, which will be its most affordable smartphone with artificial intelligence functions.

The iPhone SE 4 will include a 6.1-inch AMOLED display, Face ID instead of a home button, 8GB of DRAM, an A18 Bionic chip, an in-house 5G modem and support for Apple Intelligence.

"Our Greater China Tech Hardware team forecasts 3M iPhone SE4 builds in C1Q25, and we have already embedded 15M total iPhone SE shipments in our FY25 forecast," said Morgan Stanley analysts, led by Erik Woodring, in a Tuesday investor note. "Given the hardware spec upgrades, we are assuming that the iPhone SE4 starts at $499 (vs. current iPhone SE3 at $429), but don't rule out the possibility that Apple may eliminate the 64GB storage SKU to synthetically raise the iPhone SE price as well."

Morgan Stanley also noted that Apple Intelligence provided a small, positive effect on US iPhone demand during the quarter ended in December.

"Based on recently released data from IDC, iPhone 15 Pro/Pro Max and iPhone 16 performance in the US – the only devices and market where Apple Intelligence was available for the majority of the December quarter – outperformed the rest of world by 3.5 points (-2.7% Y/Y in US vs. -6.3% Y/Y in ROW) in the December quarter," Woodring noted.

"As a result, we'd conclude that while yes, Apple Intelligence did appear to provide a small tailwind to eligible iPhones in markets where available (the US) during the holiday quarter, it was almost entirely due to US consumers accelerating purchases of the discounted one-year-old iPhone 15vPro/Pro Max," he added.

[seekalpha](https://seekingalpha.com/news/4406137-apple-intelligence-provides-small-boost-as-iphone-se-4-prepares-to-launch-morgan-stanley)
