---
title: "Super Bowl LIX and its halftime show shatter previous viewership records - Nielsen"
date: "2025-02-12 18:45:12"
summary: "Nearly 127.7M viewers tuned in for the latest edition of the Super Bowl last Sunday, according to data provided by television ratings firm Nielsen. The ratings firm said Super Bowl LIX saw the largest audience for a single-network telecast in TV history. The game, which is one of the top..."
categories:
  - "seekalpha"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "seekalpha"
menu: ""
thumbnail: "https://static.seekingalpha.com/cdn/s3/uploads/getty_images/2178616293/image_2178616293.jpg"
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Nearly 127.7M viewers tuned in for the latest edition of the Super Bowl last Sunday, according to data provided by television ratings firm Nielsen.

The ratings firm said Super Bowl LIX saw the largest audience for a single-network telecast in TV history. The game, which is one of the top sporting events of the year, aired on FOX, FOX Deportes, and Telemundo, and streamed on Tubi. 

The peak average audience during the Philadelphia Eagles and the Kansas City Chiefs match was 137.7M viewers, between 8:00 PM and 8:15 PM ET in the second quarter, just before the halftime show. Total viewership was up 3.2% from 2024.

Compton rapper and Pulitzer prize winning artist Kendrick Lamar set the record for the most viewed Super Bowl halftime show with views averaging 133.5M viewers across all platforms from 8:30-8:45 pm ET, up 3% from a year earlier, according to data from music and entertaiment news outlet *Billboard*.

Usher, followed by Rihanna have the most watched Super Bowl halftime shows after Lamar, who also won five grammy awards just days leading up to the big game.

Lamar’s performance resulted in 80Mengagements and nearly 200K posts on mainstream social media platforms, according to data from *Marketing Dive*, surpassing Usher’s 2024 performance, which saw17Mengagements and 6K posts.

In January, media reports surfaced suggesting that Fox sold more than ten Super Bowl advertisements for at least $8 million per ad.

The game had 65 advertisements and included 57 unique advertisers. Budweiser's ([BUD](https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/BUD "Anheuser-Busch InBev SA/NV")) Super Bowl LIX ‘First Delivery’” ad was ranked no. 1 with a score of 3.56 out of 5, according to data from *USA Today’s Ad Meter*, followed by Lay's (NASDAQ:[PEP](https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/PEP "PepsiCo, Inc.")) "The Little Farmer."

In a LinkedIn post by ad consulting firm *Zappi*, they wrote, "While U.S. ads on average have aSales Impact score of 50, this year’s Super Bowl ads achieved an average Sales Impact score of 72. That’s significantly more effective than the average US ad!"

"But it’s not just sales impact, distinctiveness—an incredibly important metric for Super Bowl advertisers—was higher too (4.0 vs. 3.8 for US average)," the ad agency wrote.

Donald Trump was also the first U.S. president to attend a Super Bowl but left during the second half of the game, as per his schedule. His daughter Ivanka Trump was also present for the big game. Among notable personalities in attendance were Taylor Swift, Bradley Cooper, Pete Davidson, Serena Williams, and Jay-Z.

Last year's Super Bowl was watched by 123.7M viewers and was broadcast on CBS Paramount+ (PARAA). In 2023, over 115M people tuned in to Fox to watch the game.

[seekalpha](https://seekingalpha.com/news/4406783-super-bowl-lix-and-its-halftime-show-shatter-previous-viewership-records-nielsen)
