---
title: "Avis Budget reports Q4 loss from massive impairment hit on Americas fleet; CEO steps down"
date: "2025-02-12 00:58:29"
summary: "Avis Budget Group (NASDAQ:CAR) swung to a huge loss in the fourth quarter due to a $2.5B impairment charge recorded on its fleet and announced that company veteran Joe Ferraro is stepping down as chief executive of the car rental firm. Shares of the company are down nearly 1% after..."
categories:
  - "seekalpha"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "seekalpha"
menu: ""
thumbnail: "https://static.seekingalpha.com/cdn/s3/uploads/getty_images/1134321003/image_1134321003.jpg"
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Avis Budget Group (NASDAQ:[CAR](https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/CAR "Avis Budget Group, Inc.")) swung to a huge loss in the fourth quarter due to a $2.5B impairment charge recorded on its fleet and announced that company veteran Joe Ferraro is stepping down as chief executive of the car rental firm.

Shares of the company are down nearly 1% after the bell on the Nasdaq on Tuesday.

Ferraro will transition from top boss to board advisor at the end of June this year after a 45-year career. Brian Choi, chief transformation officer, will take over as CEO of the company, effective July 1. Additionally, Jagdeep Pahwa has been named executive chairman.

The company said due to the shortening of the useful life of the majority of its vehicles in the Americas segment, it recorded a one-time non-cash impairment of $2.3B and other non-cash-related charges of $180M in Q4.

In Q4, vehicle utilization in the Americas was up by more than two points compared to last year. Internationally, vehicle utilization was up by more than two points.

"In the United States, the December holidays were a record, and Martin Luther King Jr. Day was robust, denoting the strength of leisure activity, which we believe will continue throughout this year. For these reasons, I am confident in our ability to generate no less than $1 billion of adjusted EBITDA in 2025,” outgoing CEO Ferraro said.

Net loss for the three months ended December 31 was $1.96B, or $55.66 loss per share, compared with a net income of $259M, or $7.10 per share, in the year-ago period.

Revenue was flat at $2.71B and was in line with the average analyst estimates.

[seekalpha](https://seekingalpha.com/news/4406490-avis-budget-reports-q4-loss-from-massive-impairment-hit-on-americas-fleet-ceo-steps-down)
