---
title: "Kraft Heinz falls to near its 52-week low after its profit outlook disappoints"
date: "2025-02-12 15:24:20"
summary: "The Kraft Heinz Company (NASDAQ:KHC) reported a 4.6% decline in sales during Q4 to $6.58 billion. Organic sales fell 3.1% during the quarter to miss the consensus expectation for a drop of 3.2%. The quarter showed once again that consumers may be trading down to cheaper private label alternatives from..."
categories:
  - "seekalpha"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "seekalpha"
menu: ""
thumbnail: "https://static.seekingalpha.com/cdn/s3/uploads/getty_images/1358927461/image_1358927461.jpg"
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The Kraft Heinz Company (NASDAQ:[KHC](https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/KHC "The Kraft Heinz Company")) reported a 4.6% decline in sales during Q4 to $6.58 billion. Organic sales fell 3.1% during the quarter to miss the consensus expectation for a drop of 3.2%. The quarter showed once again that consumers may be trading down to cheaper private label alternatives from some of Kraft's (NASDAQ:[KHC](https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/KHC "The Kraft Heinz Company")) well-known brands.

Pricing increased 1.0 percentage points during the quarter, driven by increases in the North America and Emerging Markets segments, with flat pricing in International Developed Markets. The favorable pricing was primarily due to pricing taken in certain categories to mitigate higher input costs.

Volume/mix declined 4.1 percentage points versus the prior year period, with declines in each reportable segment. Unfavorable volume/mix was primarily driven by continued shifts in consumer behavior due to economic uncertainty and a decline in U.S. Away From Home.

The Chicago-based food company saw its adjusted operating income decrease 0.3% in Q4 to $1.4 billion, primarily driven by unfavorable volume/mix, increased expenses in procurement and manufacturing due, in part, to increased labor costs, and an unfavorable impact from foreign currency. Those factors were partially offset by lower variable compensation expense, higher pricing, and the beneficial impact from efficiency initiatives, primarily in procurement.

Adjusted EPS was reported at $0.84 vs. $0.78 a year ago. The EPS improvement was primarily driven by higher adjusted operating income, fewer shares outstanding, and favorable changes in other expense/(income), which more than offset higher taxes on adjusted earnings.

Looking ahead, Kraft Heinz ([KHC](https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/KHC "The Kraft Heinz Company")) said it expects full-year organic sales growth to be flat to -2.5% and sees full-year adjusted EPS landing in the range of $2.63 to $2.74 vs. $3.04 consensus.

"Although 2024 was a challenging year with our top line results coming in below our expectations, we remained disciplined in protecting profitability while driving industry-leading margins, generating strong cash flow, and returning $2.7 billion in capital to stockholders," stated CEO Carlos Abrams-Rivera. "As we enter 2025, our focus remains on executing with excellence against our strategic pillars, where we know we have the right to win," he added.

Shares of Kraft Heinz ([KHC](https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/KHC "The Kraft Heinz Company")) fell 3.66% in premarket trading to $28.49, vs. the 52-week range of $28.31 to $38.96.

[seekalpha](https://seekingalpha.com/news/4406686-kraft-heinz-falls-to-near-its-52-week-low-after-its-profit-outlook-disappoints)
