---
title: "Palo Alto Networks appears set to top estimates in upcoming results: Wedbush"
date: "2025-02-11 16:50:09"
summary: "Palo Alto Networks (NASDAQ:PANW) releases its second quarter fiscal 2025 results after the closing bell on Thursday, and Wedbush believes the cybersecurity firm should have no problem topping consensus estimates and providing a strong outlook. \"PANW continues to be one of our favorite cybersecurity names to own over the next..."
categories:
  - "seekalpha"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "seekalpha"
menu: ""
thumbnail: "https://static.seekingalpha.com/cdn/s3/uploads/getty_images/1216645819/image_1216645819.jpg"
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Palo Alto Networks (NASDAQ:[PANW](https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/PANW "Palo Alto Networks, Inc.")) releases its second quarter fiscal 2025 results after the closing bell on Thursday, and Wedbush believes the cybersecurity firm should have no problem topping consensus estimates and providing a strong outlook.

"PANW continues to be one of our favorite cybersecurity names to own over the next 12-18 months as the company generates a more stable pipeline of platformization deals with cloud penetration, which will still act as a major driver going forward," said Wedbush analysts, led by Daniel Ives, in a Tuesday investor note. "We have seen stronger deal flow in the field over the past few months and believe PANW is generating solid momentum for cybersecurity customer deployments on its platform now front and center."

Wedbush reiterated its Outperform rating and nudged up its price target by 10% to $220 from $200.

A [consensus estimate](https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/PANW/earnings "consensus estimate") expects Palo Alto to report adjusted earnings per share of $0.78 on revenue of $2.24B.

For the full year of fiscal 2025, the estimate calls for total revenue of $9.15B, which would represent a 14% year-over-year increase. Its next-generation security annual recurring revenue is expected to increase by 32% to $5.71B, according to estimates.

"We believe while it will take time to see the fruits of its labor, PANW is in the driver's seat to gain market and mind share in the cybersecurity landscape, especially as more companies head down the AI path over the coming year," Ives added. "We believe cybersecurity is a 3rd derivative of the AI Revolution and PANW is well positioned to see incremental deal flow as more strategic enterprise AI projects take hold over the coming year."

However, Seeking Alpha analyst [Gordon Best](https://seekingalpha.com/article/4756861-palo-alto-panw-stock-walking-tightrope-between-growth-valuation " Gordon Best ") rates Palo Alto a Hold ahead of the upcoming financial results.

"Clearly, the company is at the very forefront of cybersecurity, with some of the most important tools and services for today's companies," Best noted. "However, Palo Alto is trading as a highly valued company, with marginal room for error as cybersecurity budgets potentially tighten, and competition intensifies. Even as management looks to sustain high-growth rates, I fear that a decent sized correction could be just one disappointment away, and will be keeping clear until a suitable buying opportunity presents itself, much closer to my valuation of fair value."

[seekalpha](https://seekingalpha.com/news/4406080-palo-alto-networks-appears-set-to-top-estimates-in-upcoming-results-wedbush)
