---
title: "Stock index futures muted as retail inflation looms"
date: "2025-02-12 16:12:54"
summary: "Stock index futures were steady on Wednesday as investors awaited key inflation data. S&amp;P 500 futures (SPX) +0.1%, Nasdaq 100 futures (US100:IND) +0.3%, and Dow futures (INDU) -0.1%. The 10-year Treasury yield (US10Y) rose 1 basis point to 4.55%. The 2-year yield (US2Y) was flat at 4.30%. U.S. stocks on..."
categories:
  - "seekalpha"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "seekalpha"
menu: ""
thumbnail: "https://static.seekingalpha.com/cdn/s3/uploads/getty_images/169994549/image_169994549.jpg"
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Stock index futures were steady on Wednesday as investors awaited key inflation data.

S&P 500 futures ([SPX](https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/SPX "S&P 500 Index")) +0.1%, Nasdaq 100 futures ([US100:IND](https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/US100:IND "NASDAQ 100 Futures")) +0.3%, and Dow futures ([INDU](https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/INDU "Dow Jones Futures")) -0.1%.

The 10-year Treasury yield ([US10Y](https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/US10Y "United States 10-Year Bond Yield")) rose 1 basis point to 4.55%. The 2-year yield ([US2Y](https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/US2Y "United States 2-Year Bond Yield")) was flat at 4.30%.

U.S. stocks on Tuesday meandered through a largely muted session to eventually end mixed after Federal Reserve chair Jerome Powell said the central bank was in no hurry to further cut interest rates. Tariffs continued to dominate headlines as well, after further actions by President Trump.

Markets have been getting slightly more concerned in recent days as to where inflation will be next year. We'll know a little more about the near-term direction of travel today with U.S. CPI out later, Deutsche Bank's Jim Reid.

The January [consumer price index](https://seekingalpha.com/news/4405728-cpi-seen-holding-stable-in-january-with-more-signs-of-housing-disinflation "consumer price index") will land before the opening bell today. The headline CPI is anticipated to rise 0.3% M/M, easing slightly from +0.4% in December. On a year-over-year basis, that comes to +2.9%, unchanged from inflation growth in December.

Excluding food and energy prices, which can distort the headline numbers due to their volatility, CPI is expected to increase 0.3%, up slightly from 0.2% in the prior month. That's up 3.2% Y/Y, unchanged from the previous month's increase.

"Today’s report (CPI) is getting a decent amount of attention, in part because last January’s report saw a strong upside surprise, so the fear is we could get another new year uptick that upsets market expectations for the Fed to still cut this year," Reid said.

"U.S. January consumer price inflation will be largely unaffected by Trump’s trade taxes. Unless tax increases are very aggressive, nothing Trump does will have a bearing on first quarter inflation. However, the composition of consumer prices is politically important," UBS' Paul Donovan said.

Apart from the CPI report, Pvhowell will deliver semiannual monetary policy testimony before the House Financial Services Committee

[seekalpha](https://seekingalpha.com/news/4406639-stock-index-futures-muted-as-retail-inflation-looms)
