---
title: "Super Micro Computer offers up prelim Q2 results, $700M private placement"
date: "2025-02-12 01:20:16"
summary: "Super Micro Computer (NASDAQ:SMCI) shares rose 9% in extended trading on Tuesday after the artificial intelligence server company reported preliminary second-quarter results and guidance for the coming period and offered an update into its ongoing financial investigation. For the period ending Dec. 31, the Charles Liang-led company earned between $0.58..."
categories:
  - "seekalpha"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "seekalpha"
menu: ""
thumbnail: "https://static.seekingalpha.com/cdn/s3/uploads/getty_images/1828680033/image_1828680033.jpg"
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Super Micro Computer (NASDAQ:[SMCI](https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/SMCI)) shares rose 9% in extended trading on Tuesday after the artificial intelligence server company [reported](https://seekingalpha.com/pr/19999018-supermicro-announces-second-quarter-fiscal-year-2025-preliminary-financial-information) preliminary second-quarter results and guidance for the coming period and offered an update into its ongoing financial investigation.

For the period ending Dec. 31, the Charles Liang-led company earned between $0.58 and $0.60 per share on an adjusted basis, as revenue rose 54% year-over-year to be between $5.6B and $5.7B. The company had previously expected adjusted earnings to fall within a range of $0.56 to $0.65 per share.

Looking to the next period, Super Micro expects to earn between $0.46 and $0.62 per share on an adjusted basis. Revenue is expected to fall within a range of $5B to $6B.

In addition, Super Micro said it hopes to have its 2024 annual report filed by Feb. 25, along with its quarterly reports for the September 2024 and December 2024 periods. The company had not filed the quarterly reports amid accusations of improper accounting that led to an [internal review](https://seekingalpha.com/news/4354335-super-micro-jumps-as-internal-review-finds-no-misconduct-to-replace-cfo).

Super Micro also said it is cooperating with the Dept. of Justice and SEC on document requests related to the matter.

Seeking Alpha analyst Jeremy of [Kumquat Research](https://seekingalpha.com/author/kumquat-research) said the governance issues "appear to be having an impact on operating results."

"Revenue growth was 54% [year-over-year], but flat to slightly down [quarter-over-quarter] while gross margin continues to remain depressed," he said via email. "Super Micro guided $5.5 billion in revenue at the midpoint for Q3, which would again represent a flat to slight decline [quarter-over-quarter]. The launch of [Nvidia's ([NVDA](https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/NVDA "NVIDIA Corporation"))] Blackwell should have provided the company with an opportunity for higher gross margins, but it appears this has not materialized, as ramping up production might have been hampered by the recent issues."

In conjunction with the preliminary results, Super Micro said it had agreed to issue $700M worth of 2.25% Convertible Senior Notes due 2028 in a private placement. Super Micro also amended the terms of its existing Convertible Senior Notes due 2029. It will use the proceeds of the new private placement for general corporate purposes.

The company will host a conference call at 5 p.m. EST to discuss the results.

*(This story has been updated with analyst commentary.)*

[seekalpha](https://seekingalpha.com/news/4406169-super-micro-computer-slides-on-prelim-q2-results-700m-private-placement)
