---
title: "Aerial drones become leading cause of civilian death in Ukraine war: UN"
date: "2025-02-11 18:37:25"
summary: "Short-range aerial drones in January caused more civilian deaths than any other kind of weapon, the United Nations monitoring mission said on Tuesday. The report is another sign of how drones have become a key part of the war with Russia. At least 139 civilians were killed and 738 wounded..."
categories:
  - "seekalpha"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "seekalpha"
menu: ""
thumbnail: "https://static.seekingalpha.com/cdn/s3/uploads/getty_images/1736537775/image_1736537775.jpg"
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Short-range aerial drones in January caused more civilian deaths than any other kind of weapon, the United Nations monitoring mission said on Tuesday. The report is another sign of how drones have become a key part of the war with Russia.

At least 139 civilians were killed and 738 wounded in January, with 27% of the deaths and 30% of the injuries caused by short-range drones, [according to](https://ukraine.un.org/en/289062-ukraine-short-range-drones-become-most-dangerous-weapon-civilians-un-human-rights-monitors "according to") the UN Human Rights Monitoring Mission in Ukraine.

About 12,500 civilians have been killed in the war including 650 children, the UN has cautioned that it has likely undercounted casualties since its tally only includes deaths verified by its teams.

Aerial drones at the beginning of the war mostly supplemented other kinds of weapons. They now are one of the most important weapons on the battlefield. Ukraine and Russia last year each manufactured more than a million drones, Reuters reported.

"Our data shows a clear and disturbing pattern of short-range drones being used in ways that put civilians at grave risk," Danielle Bell, head of the UN mission, said in a statement. "The on-board (drone) cameras should allow operators to distinguish with a higher degree of certainty between civilians and military objectives, yet civilians continue to be killed in alarming numbers."

Russia has denied that it deliberately targets civilians since invading Ukraine in February 2022.

[seekalpha](https://seekingalpha.com/news/4406176-aerial-drones-become-leading-cause-of-civilian-death-in-ukraine-war-un)
