---
title: "Trump's Commerce pick signals U.S. might use 'trade tools' to counter Europe's ESG impact"
date: "2025-02-11 23:02:48"
summary: "Howard Lutnick, the billionaire Wall Street CEO nominated by President Donald Trump to lead to Commerce Department, has signaled that the U.S. might employ \"trade tools\" in response to European environmental, social, and governance (\"ESG\") rules impacting U.S. businesses, specifically pointing to the Corporate Sustainability Due Diligence Directive. With the..."
categories:
  - "seekalpha"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "seekalpha"
menu: ""
thumbnail: "https://static.seekingalpha.com/cdn/s3/uploads/getty_images/2196595962/image_2196595962.jpg"
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Howard Lutnick, the billionaire Wall Street CEO nominated by President Donald Trump to lead to Commerce Department, has signaled that the U.S. might employ "trade tools" in response to European environmental, social, and governance ("ESG") rules impacting U.S. businesses, specifically pointing to the Corporate Sustainability Due Diligence Directive.

With the CSDDD, businesses risk legal issues if ESG violations are discovered within their value chains. This rule requires large companies, even those outside Europe, to adhere to its standards when they serve EU markets.

"I will consider using all available trade tools at the Department’s disposal, as appropriate, to respond to any actions by foreign governments, including the EU, that harm the American economy and impose unreasonable burdens on our companies, Lutnick told Republican senators on Jan. 29, according to a filing posted on the Senate Committee on Commerce, Science and Transportation’s website.

CSDDD ultimately “imposes a significant burden on American corporations,” Lutnick, who has not yet been confirmed as Commerce secretary, [said](https://www.commerce.senate.gov/services/files/716AD67A-D991-4888-8542-299E69ECB48D "said"), without detailing which trade measures he would employ.

His remarks coincide with the EU facing pressure to reassess its ESG regulations, both domestically and internationally. Germany and France, the EU's biggest economies, have officially requested EU officials to reduce the extent of these rules, citing fears that they are undermining competitiveness and overall growth.

[seekalpha](https://seekingalpha.com/news/4406351-trumps-commerce-pick-signals-u_s_-might-use-trade-tools-to-counter-europes-esg-impact)
