---
title: "House Republicans propose to raise debt ceiling by $4T"
date: "2025-02-12 18:45:05"
summary: "House Republicans proposed raising the federal government's debt limit by $4T, according to a draft posted on the House of Representative website on Wednesday. Raising the debt limit allows the Treasury to issue debt to pay for spending that has already been approved by Congress. The national debt currently stands..."
categories:
  - "seekalpha"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "seekalpha"
menu: ""
thumbnail: "https://static.seekingalpha.com/cdn/s3/uploads/getty_images/170619188/image_170619188.jpg"
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

House Republicans proposed raising the federal government's debt limit by $4T, according to a draft posted on the House of Representative website on Wednesday.

Raising the debt limit allows the Treasury to issue debt to pay for spending that has already been approved by Congress. The national debt currently stands at $36T, or 123% of GDP, the document said.

The draft proposal noted that the goal of the concurrent resolution is to reduce mandatory spending by $2T over the budget window. It also said that the deficit for FY2025 (which ends on Sept. 30, 2025) is projected to be $1.9T, or 6.2% of GDP. During the current fiscal year, net interest will amount to $952B, or 3.2% of GDP, it added.

The [draft](https://docs.house.gov/meetings/BU/BU00/20250213/117894/BILLS-119NAih.pdf "draft") spells out the Trump administration's stated policies of reducing federal spending, expanding energy production in the U.S., lowering taxes, deregulation, and eliminating barriers to work.

The House committees have until March 27, 2025, to submit their recommendations on the budget cuts for individual segments of the federal budget. These are the amounts each committee will need to reduce deficits for the fiscal years 2025 through 2034, according to the draft:

* Agriculture: by $230B;
* Armed services: $100B;
* Education and workforce: $330B;
* Energy and commerce: $880B;
* Financial services: $1B;
* Homeland security: $90B;
* Judiciary: $110B;
* Natural resources: $1.0B
* Oversight and government reform: $50B;
* Transportation and infrastructure: $10B;
* Ways and means: $4.5T.

**Dear readers:** We recognize that politics often intersects with the financial news of the day, so we invite you to click [here to join the separate political discussion.](https://seekingalpha.com/article/4752450-politics-and-the-markets-021225 " here to join the separate political discussion.")

[seekalpha](https://seekingalpha.com/news/4406917-house-republicans-propose-to-raise-debt-ceiling-by-4t)
