---
title: "EU launches $200B AI investment plan"
date: "2025-02-11 15:20:51"
summary: "On Tuesday, European Commission's President Ursula von der Leyen launched an initiative called InvestAI to mobilize €200B for investment in AI, including a new European fund of €20B for AI gigafactories. The European regulator said the large AI infrastructure is needed to allow open, collaborative development of the most complex..."
categories:
  - "seekalpha"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "seekalpha"
menu: ""
thumbnail: "https://static.seekingalpha.com/cdn/s3/uploads/getty_images/1422997187/image_1422997187.jpg"
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

On Tuesday, European Commission's President Ursula von der Leyen launched an initiative called InvestAI to mobilize €200B for investment in AI, including a new European fund of €20B for AI gigafactories.

The European regulator [said](https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/ip_25_467 "said") the large AI infrastructure is needed to allow open, collaborative development of the most complex AI models, while unveiling the initiative at the AI Action Summit in Paris.

"This unique public-private partnership, akin to a CERN for AI, will enable all our scientists and companies – not just the biggest - to develop the most advanced very large models needed to make Europe an AI continent," said von der Leyen.

InvestAI fund will finance four future AI gigafactories across the EU and they will specialize in training the complex, large AI models. The gigafactories will have about 100,000 last-generation AI chips, around four times more than the AI factories being set up right now, according to the agency.

The Commission noted that such next-generation models require extensive computing infrastructure for breakthroughs in domains such as medicine.

The regulator noted that the gigafactories funded through InvestAI will be the largest public-private partnership in the world for developing trustworthy AI.

“Together with the EU Commission, the EIB Group is stepping up support for Artificial Intelligence, a key driver of innovation and productivity in Europe,” said Nadia Calviño, President of the European Investment Bank.

InvestAI will include a layered fund, with shares of different risk and return profiles and the EU budget would derisk the investment of other partners, the agency added.

The Commission's initial funding for InvestAI will come from existing EU funding programs.

In addition, the Commission noted that it has already announced the initial seven AI factories in December 2024 and will soon announce the next five. The existing support for AI Factories of €10B, co-financed by the EU and the Member States, is already the largest public investment in AI in the world, and will unlock over 10 times more private investment, according to the regulator.

Last month, U.S. President Donald Trump officially [announced](https://seekingalpha.com/news/4397132-stargate-project-receives-official-announcement-from-trump-openai "announced") a $500B four-year initiative called the Stargate Project to build out AI infrastructure. Previously, Trump had [signed](https://seekingalpha.com/news/4398285-trump-revokes-bidens-orders-on-ai-policies-to-set-up-ai-action-plan "signed") an executive order which revoked the Biden Administration's AI policies and directed the development of an AI Action Plan to boost America's AI dominance.

[seekalpha](https://seekingalpha.com/news/4406011-eu-launches-200b-ai-investment-plan)
