---
title: "Biggest stock movers Thursday: CSCO, RDDT, and more"
date: "2025-02-13 13:00:05"
summary: "Stock futures edged higher Thursday morning, supported by renewed optimism for a potential Ukraine peace deal. However, hotter-than-expected inflation data dampened hopes for a rate cut, keeping gains in check. Investors now turn their focus to upcoming reports on producer prices and the labor market. Here are some of Thursday's..."
categories:
  - "seekalpha"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "seekalpha"
menu: ""
thumbnail: "https://static.seekingalpha.com/cdn/s3/uploads/getty_images/1363842522/image_1363842522.jpg"
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Stock futures edged higher Thursday morning, supported by renewed optimism for a potential Ukraine peace deal. However, hotter-than-expected inflation data dampened hopes for a rate cut, keeping gains in check. Investors now turn their focus to upcoming reports on producer prices and the labor market.

Here are some of Thursday's biggest stock movers:

Biggest stock gainers
---------------------

* Cisco (NASDAQ:[CSCO](https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/CSCO "Cisco Systems, Inc.")) shares jumped over 6% after delivering stronger-than-expected FQ1 results and raising its FY2025 outlook, fueled by surging AI-driven demand. The company now forecasts full-year revenue between $56B and $56.5B, up from its prior $55.3B-$56.3B range and ahead of the $55.97B consensus. Adjusted EPS is expected at $3.68-$3.74, exceeding the previous $3.60-$3.66 range and the $3.66 consensus. For Q3, Cisco guides revenue of $13.9B-$14.1B vs. $13.88B consensus, with a non-GAAP gross margin of 67%-68% and EPS of $0.90-$0.92, in line with the $0.90 consensus.
* AppLovin (NASDAQ:[APP](https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/APP "AppLovin Corporation")) shares soared 28% after its Q4 results significantly exceeded expectations. The company reported adjusted EPS of $1.73, surpassing the $1.26 consensus estimate, and Q4 revenue of $1.37B, well above the $1.26B forecast. This marks a 44% increase in revenue compared to the $953M revenue from the same period last year. Looking ahead, AppLovin expects 1Q25 revenue to range between $1.355B and $1.385B, exceeding the $1.32B consensus.
* Robinhood Markets (NASDAQ:[HOOD](https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/HOOD "Robinhood Markets, Inc.")) shares surged 14% after the company reported Q4 results that beat Wall Street expectations, driven by a surge in cryptocurrency trading activity. Transaction-based revenue hit $672M, more than double the previous quarter’s $319M, and was up over 200% from a year ago. Cryptocurrency revenue soared more than 700% Y/Y to $358M, while options and equities revenue grew 83% and 144%, respectively. Average revenue per user rose to $164, up 102% Y/Y. Net deposits reached $16.1B, reflecting an annualized growth rate of 42%. Additionally, the company issued guidance for full-year 2025 adjusted operating expenses and SBC between $2.0B and $2.1B.

Biggest stock losers
--------------------

* Despite a 71% Y/Y revenue surge that beat expectations, Reddit (NYSE:[RDDT](https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/RDDT "Reddit, Inc."))shares sank 13% as rising expenses and weaker-than-expected user growth raised concerns. Q4 costs jumped 52% to $374.8M, driven by a 69% spike in R&D spending to $188.6M. Meanwhile, daily active users grew 39% to 101.7M but missed the consensus of 103.24M. For Q1, Reddit projects revenue of $360M-$370M (midpoint: $365M) and adjusted EBITDA of $80M-$90M (midpoint: $85M), both exceeding consensus estimates of $358.7M in revenue and $72.3M in adjusted EBITDA.
* The Trade Desk (NASDAQ:[TTD](https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/TTD "The Trade Desk, Inc.")) shares plummeted 27% after delivering mixed Q4 results and issuing weaker-than-expected Q1 guidance. The company forecasts at least $575M in Q1 revenue, missing the $582.7M consensus, with adjusted EBITDA projected at approximately $145M. The Trade Desk highlighted continued market share gains, with 2024 gross spend reaching $12B, and maintained strong customer retention above 95% for the 11th consecutive year. Additionally, the company expanded its share repurchase program, authorizing up to $1B in future buybacks of its Class A common stock.

[seekalpha](https://seekingalpha.com/news/4407454-biggest-stock-movers-thursday-csco-rddt-and-more)
