---
title: "Nabors misses Q4 top-line and bottom-line estimates; initiates Q1 and FY25 outlook"
date: "2025-02-13 09:08:50"
summary: "Nabors press release (NYSE:NBR): Q4 Non-GAAP EPS of -$6.67 misses by $4.37. Revenue of $729.82M (+0.5% Y/Y) misses by $9.53M. Fourth quarter adjusted EBITDA was $221 million, compared to $222 million in the previous quarter. Outlook Nabors expects the following metrics for the first quarter of 2025 (these expectations exclude..."
categories:
  - "seekalpha"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "seekalpha"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

* Nabors [press release](https://seekingalpha.com/pr/20000863-nabors-announces-fourth-quarter-2024-results) (NYSE:[NBR](https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/NBR "Nabors Industries Ltd.")): Q4 Non-GAAP EPS of -$6.67  misses by $4.37.
* Revenue of $729.82M (+0.5% Y/Y)  misses by $9.53M.
* Fourth quarter adjusted EBITDA was $221 million, compared to $222 million in the previous quarter.
* **Outlook**
  
  Nabors expects the following metrics for the first quarter of 2025 (these expectations exclude the impact of Parker Wellbore):
  
  U.S. Drilling
  
  + Lower 48 average rig count of approximately 61 rigs
  + Lower 48 daily adjusted gross margin of approximately $14,800
  + Alaska and Gulf of Mexico combined adjusted EBITDA approximately in line with the fourth quarter of 2024
  
  International
  
  + Average rig count of 85-86 rigs
  + Daily adjusted gross margin of approximately $17,000
  
  Drilling Solutions
  
  + Adjusted EBITDA of approximately $33 million
  
  Rig Technologies
  
  + Adjusted EBITDA of approximately $5 million
  
  Capital Expenditures
  
  + Capital expenditures of $195 - $205 million, with $80 - $85 million for the newbuilds in Saudi Arabia
  + Full-year capital expenditures of approximately $710 - $720 million, with $360 million for the SANAD newbuilds
  
  **Adjusted Free Cash Flow**
  
  + Adjusted free cash flow for 2025 of approximately breakeven, with SANAD consuming approximately $150 million, while the remaining operations should generate around $150 million.
  + "We are projecting 2025 consolidated adjusted free cash flow at just over breakeven. The expected use of cash in SANAD is approximately $150 million. This implies that Nabors outside SANAD would generate positive adjusted free cash flow of at least $150 million in 2025. This would give us the ability to reduce Nabors gross debt by a significant amount.
    
    "None of these forecasts include the impact of Parker Wellbore. We believe the acquired business will provide incremental free cash flow to the combined company, even before the expected synergies of $35 million."

[seekalpha](https://seekingalpha.com/news/4407431-nabors-misses-q4-top-line-and-bottom-line-estimates-initiates-q1-and-fy25-outlook)
