---
title: "Cisco's results, guidance impress Wall Street amid AI, Splunk strength"
date: "2025-02-13 15:59:12"
summary: "Cisco Systems' (NASDAQ:CSCO) second-quarter results and guidance did more than just top the consensus: they told Wall Street that the networking giant may finally have its mojo back. Shares rose 6.5% in premarket trading, while competitors Arista Networks (ANET) and Juniper Networks (JNPR) also ticked up. Piper Sandler analyst James..."
categories:
  - "seekalpha"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "seekalpha"
menu: ""
thumbnail: "https://static.seekingalpha.com/cdn/s3/uploads/getty_images/1146714788/image_1146714788.jpg"
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Cisco Systems' (NASDAQ:[CSCO](https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/CSCO "Cisco Systems, Inc.")) second-quarter [results and guidance](https://seekingalpha.com/news/4406903-cisco-boosts-full-year-guidance-as-q2-results-buoyed-by-ai "results and guidance") did more than just top the consensus: they told Wall Street that the networking giant may finally have its mojo back.

Shares rose 6.5% in premarket trading, while competitors Arista Networks ([ANET](https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/ANET "Arista Networks Inc")) and Juniper Networks ([JNPR](https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/JNPR "Juniper Networks, Inc.")) also ticked up.

Piper Sandler analyst James Fish credited the strength to Cisco's ongoing datacenter refresh, its artificial intelligence traction with the hyperscalers, the integration of the Splunk [acquisition](https://seekingalpha.com/news/4014155-cisco-announces-deal-to-acquire-splunk-for-28b "acquisition") and new product launches as evidence the company is executing on all cylinders.

“The debate from here will center around how much the lead-metric upside (orders, [remaining performance obligations], etc.) had been easier-compares vs. incremental demand vs. Splunk contribution,” Fish wrote in a note to clients. “Estimates are still setup well following the guide-raise, and we see Cisco being able to sustain mid-single digit sales growth as the cycles contribute and the business transition is nearing an inflection point.”

Fish maintained his Neutral rating on Cisco but raised his price target to $72 from $57 following the results.

Guidance boost
--------------

Cisco said it now expects full-year revenue to be between $56B and $56.5B, up from a prior view of $55.3B to $56.3B. Full-year adjusted earnings are now expected to fall within a range of $3.68 to $3.74 per share, compared to the previous range of $3.60 to $3.66 per share.

Analysts were expecting adjusted earnings of $3.66 per share on $55.97B in revenue.

Looking to the third-quarter, Cisco forecast sales between $13.9B and $x4.1xxB, above the $13.88B analysts were expecting. Adjusted earnings are forecast to be between $0.90 and $0.92 per share, above the $0.90 per share estimate. Adjusted gross margins are forecast to be between 67% and 68%, slightly below the 68.2% estimate.

More praise
-----------

Citi analyst Atif Malik also upped his price target after the results, as he said the Chuck Robbins-led company is just starting to see the benefits of AI enterprise sales. “With the overhang from excess inventory worked through, [double-digit] growth in campus and data center switching bodes well for 2H networking sales,” Malik wrote. “Other key positives include $750M [year-to-date] cloud AI orders that are expected to [top] $1B in FY25, and are converting to sales, as well as the start of enterprise AI orders.”

Evercore ISI analyst Amit Daryanani called the quarterly results “impressive” and added there were not many negatives for bears to pick at.

“We continue to think the FY25 guide looks relatively conservative even after the raise this quarter, so should be well positioned for another raise when they report [the April quarter],” Daryanani he wrote. He has an Outperform rating on Cisco and upped his price target to $75 from $65 after the results.

[seekalpha](https://seekingalpha.com/news/4407619-ciscos-results-guidance-impress-wall-street-amid-ai-splunk-strength)
