---
title: "Tom Brady blitzes into the growing sports collectibles industry with a stake in CardVault"
date: "2025-02-13 01:47:19"
summary: "NFL football legend Tom Brady made a strong play in the sports collectibles business by acquiring a 50% stake in CardVault. CardVault is known for offering a first-of-its-kind retail experience designed for buying, selling, trading, and grading collectibles and sports cards. The company offers an exclusive VIP trading experience for..."
categories:
  - "seekalpha"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "seekalpha"
menu: ""
thumbnail: "https://static.seekingalpha.com/cdn/s3/uploads/getty_images/2080521022/image_2080521022.jpg"
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

NFL football legend Tom Brady made a strong play in the sports collectibles business by acquiring a 50% stake in CardVault.

CardVault is known for offering a first-of-its-kind retail experience designed for buying, selling, trading, and grading collectibles and sports cards. The company offers an exclusive VIP trading experience for high-end collectors and provides authentication services for sports memorabilia at all collector levels. CardVault is a relatively young company, having been founded in 2020 by a group of entrepreneurs including Ed Kane, Randy Greenstein, Chris Costa, Tim Bonito, and Scott Heigelmann.

As part of the transaction with Brady, CardVault will now be formerly known as CardVault by Tom Brady.

Currently, CardVault boasts prime locations at iconic venues such as Boston's TD Garden, Gillette Stadium in Foxborough, and Foxwoods Resort Casino. The company is poised to unveil its next flagship store this spring at American Dream, adjacent to MetLife Stadium in New Jersey, while actively exploring opportunities at other major sports hubs. With an eye on future growth, CardVault is also considering international expansion.

Beyond its physical presence, CardVault offers exclusive digital content and hosts live-streamed box breaks, providing an innovative, on-demand shopping experience for sports cards and collectibles enthusiasts. The blend of brick-and-mortar establishments and digital offerings positions CardVault at the forefront of the sports memorabilia market, according to industry insiders.

"Sports collectibles and cards have been part of my DNA since childhood, and CardVault has set the gold standard for what a modern fan experience should be," said Brady. "This isn't just about buying and selling cards; it's about curating history, building community, turning fans into collectors, and giving them access to own great moments in sports," he added.

Other companies associated with collectibles and trading cards include Fanatics' ([FANA](https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/FANA "Fanatics")) Topps, Panini America, Upper Deck, Pokémon Company ([OTCPK:NTDOY](https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/NTDOY "Nintendo Co., Ltd.")), eBay ([EBAY](https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/EBAY "eBay Inc.")), Collectors Universe, Leaf Trading Cards, Donruss, GameStop (NYSE:[GME](https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/GME "GameStop Corp.")), and Wizards of the Coast (NASDAQ:[HAS](https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/HAS "Hasbro, Inc.")).

[seekalpha](https://seekingalpha.com/news/4407135-tom-brady-blitzes-into-the-growing-sports-collectibles-industry-with-a-stake-in-cardvault)
