---
title: "Friday's Economic Calendar"
date: "2025-02-14 08:00:00"
summary: "8:30 AM Retail Sales Retail Sales measure the change in the total value of sales at the retail level. It is the foremost indicator of consumer spending, which accounts for the majority of overall economic activity. January retail sales are expected to be flat over the prior month after gaining..."
categories:
  - "seekalpha"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "seekalpha"
menu: ""
thumbnail: "https://static.seekingalpha.com/cdn/s3/uploads/getty_images/133962701/image_133962701.jpg"
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

**8:30 AM Retail Sales**

Retail Sales measure the change in the total value of sales at the retail level. It is the foremost indicator of consumer spending, which accounts for the majority of overall economic activity. January retail sales are expected to be flat over the prior month after gaining 0.4% in December.

**8:30 AM Import/Export Prices**

The Import/Export Price Indexes contain data on changes in the prices of nonmilitary goods and services traded between the U.S. and the rest of the world. The imports price is set to decline by 0.4%, while export prices are expected to gain 0.3% in January.

**9:15 AM Industrial Production** 

The industrial production index is a monthly economic indicator that measures the real output of a country's manufacturing, mining, electric, and gas industries. Industrial production is expected to rise 0.3% in January after gainaing 0.9% in December.

**10:00 AM Business Inventories**

Business Inventories measures the change in the worth of unsold goods held by manufacturers, wholesalers, and retailers. Total business inventories are expected to go up by 0.3% in December, following a 0.1% increase in November.

**1:00 PM Baker-Hughes Rig Count**

The Baker Hughes North American rig count tracks weekly changes in the number of active operating oil & gas rigs. The active rig count acts as a leading indicator of demand for oil products. Crude Oil Rigs in the United States increased to 480 in February 7 from 479 in the previous week.

Click [here](https://seekingalpha.com/news/4405430-weekly-economic-calender-focus-on-cpi-jobless-claims) to see the weekly economic calendar.

[seekalpha](https://seekingalpha.com/news/4407772-fridays-economic-calendar)
