---
title: "Wyndham's mixed Q4 results, soft FY25 EPS guidance weighs on shares"
date: "2025-02-13 01:15:00"
summary: "With more than 68,000 new rooms and by unlocking new revenue streams, Wyndham Hotels &amp; Resorts (NYSE:WH) realized a 5% increase in global revenue per available room (RevPAR) and 6.2% increase in total revenue, contributing to a better-than-expected profit for the fourth quarter. The company also increased its quarterly dividend..."
categories:
  - "seekalpha"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "seekalpha"
menu: ""
thumbnail: "https://static.seekingalpha.com/cdn/s3/uploads/getty_images/962990130/image_962990130.jpg"
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

With more than 68,000 new rooms and by unlocking new revenue streams, Wyndham Hotels & Resorts (NYSE:[WH](https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/WH "Wyndham Hotels & Resorts, Inc.")) realized a 5% increase in global revenue per available room (RevPAR) and 6.2% increase in total revenue, contributing to a better-than-expected profit for the fourth quarter.

The company also increased its quarterly dividend by 8% to $0.41 per share, beginning with the first dividend of 2025.

Shares were lower in after-hours trading, however, as the hotel chain issued a range for EPS guidance that was on the lower end of expectations, and Q4 revenue that just missed the consensus estimate.

In Q4, Wyndham’s (NYSE:[WH](https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/WH "Wyndham Hotels & Resorts, Inc.")) results included 140 basis points of favorable hurricane impacts, resulting in U.S. RevPAR increasing by 620 basis points sequentially from Q3. Internationally, the company’s EMEA and Latin America regions experienced the largest increases year-over-year, collectively increasing by 15%, while in China, RevPAR was down 11%.

Fee-related and other revenue increased by 7% to $341M $3.5M less than expected, while the company’s profit of $1.04 per share was up 14% and a nickel better than expected. Adjusted EBITDA grew 9% to $168M.

As of December 31, 2024, Wyndham’s (NYSE:[WH](https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/WH "Wyndham Hotels & Resorts, Inc.")) global development pipeline consisted of approximately 2,100 hotels and 252,000 rooms, representing another record-high level and a 5% year-over-year increase.

In 2025, the company expects to add 3.6% to 4.6% more rooms, with a projected RevPAR of 2% to 3%. Total revenue is expected to total $1.49B to $1.51B, bracketing the consensus estimate of $1.50B. Adjusted earnings of $4.66 and $4.78 per share compares to the $4.78 consensus estimate.

CEO comment: "What excites us most about our future is the developer interest in, and demand for, our brands both here and overseas, reflected in a pipeline that grew another 5% to a record quarter-of-a-million rooms that will open in the coming years with significant FeePAR premiums compared to our existing system.” -- Geoff Ballotti

[seekalpha](https://seekingalpha.com/news/4407304-wyndhams-mixed-q4-results-soft-fy25-eps-guidance-weighs-on-shares)
