---
title: "Key takeaways from The Trade Desk earnings as stock slides 25%"
date: "2025-02-13 00:15:05"
summary: "The Trade Desk (NASDAQ:TTD) slid 25% after the company topped profit expectations in fourth-quarter earnings but missed expectations with revenue growth short of Wall Street consensus for a 25%-plus boost. Revenues grew 22% to $741M, short of forecasts for $759.6M, and company guidance for the current quarter wasn't upbeat: It..."
categories:
  - "seekalpha"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "seekalpha"
menu: ""
thumbnail: "https://static.seekingalpha.com/cdn/s3/uploads/getty_images/610508692/image_610508692.jpg"
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The Trade Desk (NASDAQ:[TTD](https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/TTD "The Trade Desk, Inc.")) slid 25% after the company topped profit expectations in fourth-quarter earnings but missed expectations with revenue growth short of Wall Street consensus for a 25%-plus boost.

Revenues grew 22% to $741M, short of forecasts for $759.6M, and company guidance for the current quarter wasn't upbeat: It expects "revenue of at least $575M," compared with Street consensus for $582.7M.

“The Trade Desk once again outpaced nearly every segment of digital advertising in 2024, delivering $2.4 billion of revenue – marking accelerated growth of 26% year over year – and a record $12 billion of spend on our platform. At the same time, we achieved significant profitability and cash flow," CEO and founder Jeff Green said in initial reaction.

"While we are proud of these accomplishments, we are disappointed that we fell short of our own expectations in the fourth quarter. In December, we undertook a reorganization to accelerate opportunities across CTV, retail media, identity, supply chain optimization, and audio while forging ahead with innovations like Kokai and the Ventura Operating System," he added.

### Share and retention metrics

Operating metrics remained strong: As it has for 11 years, customer retention stayed about 95%, and the company posted continued share gains, noting full-year gross spend of $12B.

In forward-looking operations, the company noted that support continues to build for Unified ID 2.0 (which it touts as an upgrade and alternative to third-party ad cookies) and that it plans to partner with TV original-equipment makers and other partners to deploy its "Ventura" streaming TV operating system.

### Margin strength

While revenue fell short of expectations, net income rose 88% on a GAAP basis to $182M, and non-GAAP net income jumped to $297M from a year-ago $207M.

Net income margin rose to 25% from a year-ago 16%. Adjusted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization jumped to $350M from $284M, and adjusted EBITDA margin held steady at 47%.

The company also added to its share repurchase authorization, bring that total to $1B of its Class A common stock.

[Conference call](https://events.q4inc.com/attendee/618911284 "Conference call") to come at 5 p.m. ET.

[seekalpha](https://seekingalpha.com/news/4407185-key-takeaways-from-the-trade-desk-earnings-as-stock-slides-25)
