---
title: "Deere’s stock declines on grim outlook for farm machinery"
date: "2025-02-13 16:40:13"
summary: "Deere’s (NYSE:DE) stock fell 6% in premarket trading Thursday after the maker of farming and construction equipment reported a decline in earnings and forecast a significant drop in sales for the year. Falling crop prices has led to weak demand for the company’s products. Deere (NYSE:DE) last year said it..."
categories:
  - "seekalpha"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "seekalpha"
menu: ""
thumbnail: "https://static.seekingalpha.com/cdn/s3/uploads/getty_images/533086890/image_533086890.jpg"
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Deere’s (NYSE:[DE](https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/DE "Deere & Company")) stock fell 6% in premarket trading Thursday after the maker of farming and construction equipment reported a decline in earnings and forecast a significant drop in sales for the year.

Falling crop prices has led to weak demand for the company’s products. Deere (NYSE:[DE](https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/DE "Deere & Company")) last year said it would cut jobs to reduce expenses.

For its fiscal first quarter ended January 26, Deere’s ([DE](https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/DE "Deere & Company")) net income was $869 million, or $3.19 a share, down from $1.751 billion, or $6.23 a share, a year earlier.

Sales fell 30% from a year earlier to $8.508 billion, beating the average estimate of $7.89 billion among Wall Street analysts surveyed by S&P Global Intelligence.

“Deere’s ([DE](https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/DE "Deere & Company")) performance in the first quarter highlights our continued focus on optimizing inventory levels of both new and used equipment amidst the uncertain market conditions our customers are facing,” John May, chief executive of the company, said in prepared remarks.

### Guidance for 2025

Management expects fiscal 2025 net income in the range of $5.0 billion to $5.5 billion, compared with the consensus estimate of $5.3 billion.

Sales at its production and precision agriculture unit are expected to decline 15% to 20% for the full year. The company estimated small agriculture and turf sales to decline by 10% and construction and forestry sales to drop 10% to 15%.

The guidance doesn’t include possible effects of tariffs on imports and trade disputes between the U.S. and other countries.

### Fiscal first quarter results

Deere’s production and precision agriculture sales slumped by 37% in the first quarter to $3.067 billion, below the $3.525 billion consensus. Slower shipment volumes led to the decline as its operating profit fell 68% to $338 million.

Small agriculture and turf sales dropped 28% to $1.748 billion to miss the $1.960 billion consensus.

Construction and forestry sales fell 38% to $1.994 billion. Financial services sales rose 11% to $230 million.

[seekalpha](https://seekingalpha.com/news/4407646-deeres-stock-declines-on-grim-outlook-for-farm-machinery)
