---
title: "Molson Coors rallies after Q4 results were boosted by pricing and sales mix"
date: "2025-02-13 14:55:39"
summary: "Molson Coors (NYSE:TAP) sailed past consensus estimates with its Q4 earnings report and set a favorable outlook. Financial volume decreased 6.4% during the quarter, primarily due to lower shipments in both segments, including lower contract brewing volumes in the Americas. Brand volumes decreased 3.4%, including a 6.9% decrease in EMEA&amp;APAC..."
categories:
  - "seekalpha"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "seekalpha"
menu: ""
thumbnail: "https://static.seekingalpha.com/cdn/s3/uploads/getty_images/458105967/image_458105967.jpg"
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Molson Coors (NYSE:[TAP](https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/TAP "Molson Coors Beverage Company")) sailed past consensus estimates with its Q4 earnings report and set a favorable outlook.

Financial volume decreased 6.4% during the quarter, primarily due to lower shipments in both segments, including lower contract brewing volumes in the Americas. Brand volumes decreased 3.4%, including a 6.9% decrease in EMEA&APAC as well as a 2.2% decrease in the Americas.

Net sales decreased 2.0%, driven by lower financial volumes and unfavorable foreign currency impacts, partially offset by favorable price and sales mix. Net sales decreased 1.9% in constant currency.

Cost of goods sold ("COGS"): decreased 3.4% on a reported basis, primarily due to lower financial volumes, partially offset by higher cost of goods sold per hectoliter. EPS was reported at $1.30 vs. $1.13 consensus and $1.19 a year ago.

"We continued to advance our strategy and achieved another year of bottom-line growth. Amid a challenging macroeconomic environment, we continued to support the health of our brands globally and premiumize our business in several markets while developing plans for premiumization in the U.S. in 2025," noted CEO Gavin Hattersley.

In Canada, Coors Light remained the number one light beer in the industry and again grew segment market share amid a challenging industry backdrop. In EMEA&APAC, Ožjusko, the market leader in Croatia, along with the successful launch of legacy brand Caraiman in Romania helped to offset some impact of the increasingly competitive environment for Carling in the U.K.

Looking ahead, Molson Coors (NYSE:[TAP](https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/TAP "Molson Coors Beverage Company")) expects 2025 sales to rise at a low single-digit rate on a constant currency basis. Underlying EPS is seen growing at a high single-digit rate.

Shares of Molson Coors ([TAP](https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/TAP "Molson Coors Beverage Company")) rose 5.14% premarket to $56.20 vs. the 52-week trading range of $49.19 to $69.18.

[seekalpha](https://seekingalpha.com/news/4407541-molson-coors-rallies-after-q4-results-were-boosted-by-pricing-and-sales-mix)
