---
title: "Veeco Instruments gains ground on advanced packaging, but China headwinds loom"
date: "2025-02-13 18:50:16"
summary: "Veeco Instruments (NASDAQ:VECO) reported fourth quarter 2024 financial results that slightly surpassed estimates, and eyes significant growth in advanced packaging, but China revenue is expected to decline in 2025. Veeco shares climbed 2% during Thursday morning trading. Shares have declined nearly 35% over the past six months. \"Revenue from our..."
categories:
  - "seekalpha"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "seekalpha"
menu: ""
thumbnail: "https://static.seekingalpha.com/cdn/s3/uploads/getty_images/1482546146/image_1482546146.jpg"
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Veeco Instruments (NASDAQ:[VECO](https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/VECO "Veeco Instruments Inc.")) reported fourth quarter 2024 [financial results](https://seekingalpha.com/news/4407194-veeco-instruments-non-gaap-eps-of-0_41-beats-by-0_01-revenue-of-182_1m-beats-by-5_84m "financial results") that slightly surpassed estimates, and eyes significant growth in advanced packaging, but China revenue is expected to decline in 2025.

Veeco shares climbed 2% during Thursday morning trading. Shares have declined nearly 35% over the past six months.

"Revenue from our semiconductor business reached another record in 2024, outperforming WFE growth for the fourth consecutive year," said Veeco CEO [Bill Miller](https://seekingalpha.com/article/4757623-veeco-instruments-inc-veco-q4-2024-earnings-call-transcript "Bill Miller").

"Another key driver of growth came from wet processing, where our system is production tool of record and 3D packaging for AI," Miller added. "While investing for growth is core to our long-term strategy, expanding profitability is also important."

"For 2025, management sees that China revenue will decline for the year (we estimate -35% YoY)," said Needham analysts Charles Shi and Ross Cole in a Thursday investor note. "On the flip side, management sounded incrementally positive on advanced packaging and GAA and expects revenue for both applications to double in 2025. We continue to see a slight overall decline in the business next year as Semiconductor segment is likely flat to slightly up, and Data Storage will contribute most of the decline in total sales for 2025."

Needham maintains its Buy rating on the stock, but lowered its price target to $29 from $35. Needham also lowered its adjusted earnings per share estimate for the first quarter of 2025 to $0.31 from $0.39. Veeco expects first quarter earnings per share to range from $0.26 to $0.36.

Similarly, Benchmark Equity Research reiterated its Buy rating, but trimmed its price target to $31 from $38.

"China is projected to account for 25% to 30% of 1H25 sales, versus 36% of sales in 2024, with somewhat lower sales in 2H25," said Benchmark analyst Mark Miller, in a note. "Lower mature node semiconductor sales are expected into China in 2025, but overall growth in semiconductor sales is seen via gate-all-around and AP opportunities."

In its data storage segment, Veeco does note expect its customers to add capacity in 2025, which could result in a $60M to $70M decline in sales for the year.

Veeco competitors edged up today as well. Advanced Energy Industries ([AEIS](https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/AEIS "Advanced Energy Industries, Inc.")) climbed 5%, FormFactor ([FORM](https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/FORM "FormFactor, Inc.")) was up less than 1% and Axcelis Technologies ([ACLS](https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/ACLS "Axcelis Technologies, Inc.")) inched 1% higher by noon trading.

[seekalpha](https://seekingalpha.com/news/4407794-veeco-instruments-gains-ground-on-advanced-packaging-but-china-headwinds-loom)
