---
title: "British American Tobacco slides even as the company highlights 'progressive' dividend and sustainable buybacks"
date: "2025-02-13 18:30:35"
summary: "British American Tobacco p.l.c (BAT) traded lower on Thursday after the company released its 2024 earnings report, showing mixed results and highlighting ongoing challenges, including the illicit presence of single-use vapes and a writeoff from a lawsuit in Canada. Organic revenue up 1.3% (at constant rates), driven by New Categories..."
categories:
  - "seekalpha"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "seekalpha"
menu: ""
thumbnail: "https://static.seekingalpha.com/cdn/s3/uploads/getty_images/2163482301/image_2163482301.jpg"
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

British American Tobacco p.l.c (BAT) traded lower on Thursday after the company released its 2024 earnings report, showing mixed results and highlighting ongoing challenges, including the illicit presence of single-use vapes and a writeoff from a lawsuit in Canada.

Organic revenue up 1.3% (at constant rates), driven by New Categories organic revenue growth of 8.9%.

The company reported a full-year pretax profit of £3.54 billion, a significant turnaround from the previous year's loss of £17.06 billion. However, revenue declined by 5.2% to £25.87 billion, partly due to the divestment of businesses in Russia and Belarus.

Adjusted profit from operations fell slightly to £11.89 billion, missing market expectations.

Revenue from BAT’s new categories segment grew by 2.5% to £3.42 billion, but this was below market expectations, reflecting slower-than-expected progress in its shift toward reduced-risk products. The company also booked a £6.2 billion provision for a litigation settlement in Canada.

Despite the challenges, British American Tobacco (NYSE:[BTI](https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/BTI "British American Tobacco p.l.c.")) increased its dividend and announced a £900 million share buyback program for 2025.

Looking ahead, British American Tobacco (NYSE:[BTI](https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/BTI "British American Tobacco p.l.c.")) expects modest revenue growth of around 1% in 2025 and adjusted profit from operations to grow between 1.5% and 2.5%. Regulatory pressures in markets like Bangladesh and Australia are expected to weigh on its combustibles segment. Nonetheless, BAT reaffirmed its commitment to transitioning into a predominantly smokeless business by 2035.

CEO outlook: "We are making good progress and while there is still more to do, I am certain that the investment actions taken in 2024 are the right way forward for BAT. Our foundations are strong and we will continue to reward shareholders through our strong cash returns, including ourprogressive dividend and sustainable share buy-back... In 2025, while we expect significant regulatory and fiscal headwinds in Bangladesh and Australia to impact our combustibles performance, I am confident that we will progressively build on our delivery as we shift from investment to deployment and we remain committed to returning to our mid-term guidance of 3-5% revenue and 4-6% adjusted profit from operations\* growth on a constant currency in 2026."

Shares of British American Tobacco ([BTI](https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/BTI "British American Tobacco p.l.c.")) fell more than 9% in London trading.

[seekalpha](https://seekingalpha.com/news/4407786-british-american-tobacco-slides-even-as-the-company-highlights-progressive-dividend-and-sustainable-buybacks)
