---
title: "YETI Holdings posts mixed results amid 'discerning' consumer behavior"
date: "2025-02-13 14:43:54"
summary: "YETI Holdings (NYSE:YETI) gained in early investor reaction after the company issued a mixed Q4 earnings report. Revenue was up 5.2% year-over-year during the quarter to $546.6 million. On an adjusted basis, which excludes recall reserve adjustments, sales increased 7%. The company pointed to signs of more discerning consumer buying..."
categories:
  - "seekalpha"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "seekalpha"
menu: ""
thumbnail: "https://static.seekingalpha.com/cdn/s3/uploads/getty_images/1358927461/image_1358927461.jpg"
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

YETI Holdings (NYSE:[YETI](https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/YETI "YETI Holdings, Inc.")) gained in early investor reaction after the company issued a mixed Q4 earnings report. Revenue was up 5.2% year-over-year during the quarter to $546.6 million. On an adjusted basis, which excludes recall reserve adjustments, sales increased 7%.

The company pointed to signs of more discerning consumer buying behavior during the quarter.

Net sales in the U.S. increased 1%, to $437.6 million. Excluding the impacts related to the recall reserves, adjusted net sales in the U.S. increased 4% to $446.4 million. International net sales increased 27%, to $108.9 million.

Direct-to-consumer channel sales increased 7% during the quarter to $368.6 million, due to growth in both Coolers & Equipment and Drinkware. Wholesale channel sales increased 2% to $178.0 million, primarily due to growth in Coolers & Equipment.

Drinkware sales increased 3% to $358.1 million, driven by the continued expansion and innovation of Drinkware product offerings and new seasonal colorways. Coolers & Equipment sales increased 9% to $180.2 million, driven by strong performance in bags and hard coolers.

Excluding the impact of the recall reserves, gross margin was flat as lower inbound freight costs and lower product costs were offset by higher customization costs and higher other costs. Net income was reported at $1.00 vs. $0.90 a year ago.

CEO outlook: "As we enter 2025, although we expect the near-term market, particularly in the U.S., to be pressured by many of the same forces we saw in the fourth quarter and much of 2024, our strategy remains the same, which will enable us to continue to deliver long-term growth. Along with our topline growth, we also expect adjusted operating margin expansion in 2025, while also delivering strong earnings growth."

YETI Holdings (NYSE:[YETI](https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/YETI "YETI Holdings, Inc.")) guided for 2025 adjusted sales rising 5% to 7% and adjusted EPS of $2.90 to $2.95 (midpoint $2.925) vs. $2.90 consensus.

Shares of YETI Holdings ([YETI](https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/YETI "YETI Holdings, Inc.")) rallied 3.67% in premarket action.

[seekalpha](https://seekingalpha.com/news/4407542-yeti-holdings-posts-mixed-results-amid-discerning-consumer-behavior)
