---
title: "Steve Madden acquires luxury UK footwear brand Kurt Geiger"
date: "2025-02-13 15:29:25"
summary: "Steve Madden (NASDAQ:SHOO) announced on Thursday that it has entered into a definitive agreement to acquire UK-based Kurt Geiger from a group led by international private equity firm Cinven for an enterprise value of approximately £289 million in cash. Steve Madden (NASDAQ:SHOO) intends to fund the transaction with a combination..."
categories:
  - "seekalpha"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "seekalpha"
menu: ""
thumbnail: "https://static.seekingalpha.com/cdn/s3/uploads/getty_images/147205356/image_147205356.jpg"
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Steve Madden (NASDAQ:[SHOO](https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/SHOO "Steven Madden, Ltd.")) announced on Thursday that it has entered into a definitive agreement to acquire UK-based Kurt Geiger from a group led by international private equity firm Cinven for an enterprise value of approximately £289 million in cash.

Steve Madden (NASDAQ:[SHOO](https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/SHOO "Steven Madden, Ltd.")) intends to fund the transaction with a combination of committed debt financing and cash on hand. The transaction is anticipated to close in the second quarter of 2025, subject to the receipt of required regulatory clearance and other customary closing conditions. The board has unanimously approved the transaction.

Kurt Geiger was founded in 1963, growing from a single store on London's Bond Street to an international fashion powerhouse. The London-based company operates around 70 stores worldwide and has multiple concessions within department stores, including prestigious locations like Harrods and Selfridges.

In addition to Kurt Geiger London, Kurt Geiger’s brand portfolio includes KG Kurt Geiger and Carvela. Kurt Geiger also operates footwear concessions within luxury and premium department stores in the United Kingdom, including Harrods and Selfridges, where it sells both its own and third-party brands. For the twelve months ended February 1, 2025, Kurt Geiger had estimated revenue of approximately £400 million.

"Kurt Geiger London’s unique brand image, high-quality and statement-making styles and compelling value proposition have driven success across multiple product categories, led by handbags. Its differentiated and elevated positioning within the market – and its alignment with our strategic initiatives of expanding in international markets, accessories categories and direct-to-consumer channels – make this a highly attractive and complementary addition to our portfolio," highlighted Steve Madden CEO Edward Rosenfeld.

[seekalpha](https://seekingalpha.com/news/4407598-steve-madden-acquires-luxury-uk-footwear-brand-kurt-geiger)
