---
title: "Actionable ideas by Piper Sandler: Buy ROK, BAC, MCD, Sell WYNN"
date: "2025-02-12 19:55:02"
summary: "Piper Sandler highlighted six actionable ideas, with five recommended buys and one sell idea. Rockwell Automation (ROK) Craig W. Johnson, chief market technician at Piper Sandler, said that these shares are “retesting the neckline of an inverted head and shoulders formation,” as relative strength has left negative territory. He said..."
categories:
  - "seekalpha"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "seekalpha"
menu: ""
thumbnail: "https://static.seekingalpha.com/cdn/s3/uploads/getty_images/2158392977/image_2158392977.jpg"
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Piper Sandler highlighted six actionable ideas, with five recommended buys and one sell idea.

**Rockwell Automation ([ROK](https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/ROK "Rockwell Automation, Inc."))**

Craig W. Johnson, chief market technician at Piper Sandler, said that these shares are “retesting the neckline of an inverted head and shoulders formation,” as relative strength has left negative territory.

He said to add to positions on a breakout above the “neckline.”

TechniGrade: 6

Piper Sandler’s TechniGrade ranking system is a quantitative process used to identify relative performance of a security. Grades range from 1 through 20, with the lowest number the better.

**Bank of America ([BAC](https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/BAC "Bank of America Corporation"))**

Here, the stock’s index is approaching “overhead resistance” near $48. Also, relative strength is still in positive territory.

“Add to positions on a confirmed topside breakout,” said Johnson.

TechniGrade: 7

**McDonald’s Corp. ([MCD](https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/MCD "McDonald's Corporation"))**

McDonald’s shares have surpassed their overhead resistance near $304, and their relative strength has gotten out of negative territory.

“Add to positions,” as “a retest of the 2024 highs appears likely.”

TechniGrade: 7

**Sanmina Corp. ([SANM](https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/SANM "Sanmina Corporation"))**

Here, shares are approaching the upper end of a “rising price channel,” Johnson said.

The stock’s relative strength has risen higher “close to the midline and impressive TechniGrade ranking.”

TechniGrade: 3

He recommended investors to use the stock’s pullbacks within the price channel to add to positions.

**Alibaba Group Holdings ([BABA](https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/BABA "Alibaba Group Holding Limited"))**

Alibaba’s shares are approaching the upper end of a “symmetrical triangle formation,” where relative strength has reached positive territory and an impressive TechniGrade ranking, Johnson said.

TechniGrade: 2

“Add to positions on a confirmed topside breakout.”

**Wynn Resorts Ltd. ([WYNN](https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/WYNN "Wynn Resorts, Limited"))**

Wynn Resorts shares, on the other hand, have “violated key support” near $80.

Also, relative strength has deteriorated to multi-year lows. “Reduce positions, a retest of the lower end of the price channel appears likely,” Johnson said.

TechniGrade: 18

[seekalpha](https://seekingalpha.com/news/4407004-actionable-ideas-by-piper-sandler-buy-rok-bac-mcd-sell-wynn)
