---
title: "Wendy's lowers its dividend rate as part of a plan to invest in growth opportunities"
date: "2025-02-13 15:50:53"
summary: "Wendy's Companies (NASDAQ:WEN) is on watch after reporting Q4 results and updating its capital allocation strategy. The restaurant operator reported systemwide sales growth of 5.4% in Q4. U.S. systemwide sales growth was 4.5% for the quarter, while international sales growth was 11.3%. Global same-restaurant sales were up 4.3%. The U.S...."
categories:
  - "seekalpha"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "seekalpha"
menu: ""
thumbnail: "https://static.seekingalpha.com/cdn/s3/uploads/getty_images/1900835706/image_1900835706.jpg"
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Wendy's Companies (NASDAQ:[WEN](https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/WEN "The Wendy's Company")) is on watch after reporting Q4 results and updating its capital allocation strategy.

The restaurant operator reported systemwide sales growth of 5.4% in Q4. U.S. systemwide sales growth was 4.5% for the quarter, while international sales growth was 11.3%. Global same-restaurant sales were up 4.3%. The U.S. comparable sales mark of 4.1% beat the consensus expectation of 3.4%.

Adjusted EBITDA was up 8.6% to $137.5 million. The increase in adjusted EBITDA resulted primarily from an increase in net franchisee fees, U.S. company-operated restaurant margin, and franchise royalty revenue. These items were partially offset by the company's incremental investment in breakfast advertising and higher general and administrative expense.

Adjusted EPS for the quarter was reported at $0.25 vs $0.24 consensus and $0.21 a year ago.

On the capital allocation front, the restaurant company plans to accelerate growth investments, which it believes will enhance long-term shareholder value and enable it to take advantage of an opportunity to repurchase shares in 2025 at what it believes is an attractive share price.

Wendy's (NASDAQ:[WEN](https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/WEN "The Wendy's Company")) new target dividend payout ratio is 50% to 60% of adjusted earnings. As a result, beginning in the second quarter, the company expects to pay a quarterly dividend of $0.14 per share from a prior payout rate of $0.25 per share. Wendy's (NASDAQ:[WEN](https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/WEN "The Wendy's Company")) also plans to repurchase up to $200 million of its shares in 2025, with a majority of the shares expected to be acquired over the next few months.

"We are well positioned to accelerate growth, and we have a clear roadmap for Wendy's future," stated CEO Kirk Tanner. "Our new capital allocation policy will enable us to pursue these opportunities and maximize long-term shareholder value," he added.

Looking ahead, Wendy's ([WEN](https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/WEN "The Wendy's Company")) sees 2025 adjusted EPS of $0.98 to $1.02 (midpoint $1.00) vs. $1.04 consensus.

Shares of Wendy's ([WEN](https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/WEN "The Wendy's Company")) were up 0.6% in premarket trading.

[seekalpha](https://seekingalpha.com/news/4407605-wendys-lowers-its-dividend-rate-as-part-of-a-plan-to-invest-in-growth-opportunities)
