---
title: "Zebra Technologies beats top-line and bottom-line estimates; initiates Q1 and FY25 outlook"
date: "2025-02-13 14:39:18"
summary: "Zebra Technologies press release (NASDAQ:ZBRA): Q4 Non-GAAP EPS of $4.00 beats by $0.06. Revenue of $1.33B (+33.0% Y/Y) beats by $10M. Adjusted EBITDA increased 90.3% year-over-year to $295 million. Consolidated organic net sales for the fourth quarter of 2024 increased 31.6% year over year, with a 33.1% increase in the..."
categories:
  - "seekalpha"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "seekalpha"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

* Zebra Technologies [press release](https://seekingalpha.com/pr/20001126-zebra-technologies-announces-fourth-quarter-and-full-year-2024-results) (NASDAQ:[ZBRA](https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/ZBRA "Zebra Technologies Corporation")): Q4 Non-GAAP EPS of $4.00  beats by $0.06.
* Revenue of $1.33B (+33.0% Y/Y)  beats by $10M.
* Adjusted EBITDA increased 90.3% year-over-year to $295 million.
* Consolidated organic net sales for the fourth quarter of 2024 increased 31.6% year over year, with a 33.1% increase in the EVM segment and 28.8% increase in the AIT segment.
* Adjusted gross margin was 48.7% in the fourth quarter of 2024, compared to 44.6% in the prior year.
* As of December 31, 2024, the company had cash and cash equivalents of $901 million and total debt of $2,183 million.
* For the full year 2024, net cash provided by operating activities was $1,013 million and the Company made capital expenditures of $59 million, resulting in free cash flow of $954 million.
* **Outlook:** **First Quarter 2025:** The company expects net sales to grow between 8% and 11% compared to the first quarter of 2024 **vs. estimated growth of 8.41% Y/Y**. This expectation includes an approximately 1 point unfavorable impact from foreign currency translation.
  
  Adjusted EBITDA margin for the first quarter of 2025 is expected to be approximately 21%, which includes approximately $7 million gross profit impact from recently announced Mexico and China import tariffs. Non-GAAP diluted earnings per share are expected to be in the range of $3.50 to $3.70 **vs. $3.57 consensus**.
  
  **Full Year 2025**
  
  The company expects net sales to grow between 3% to 7% compared to 2024 **vs. estimated growth of 8.22% Y/Y**. This expectation assumes a 130 basis point unfavorable impact from foreign currency translation.
  
  Adjusted EBITDA margin is expected to be between 21% and 22%, which includes approximately $20 million gross profit impact from recently announced Mexico and China import tariffs net of planned mitigation actions. Non-GAAP diluted earnings per share are expected to be the range of $14.75 to $15.25 **vs. $16.00 consensus**. This assumes an adjusted effective tax rate of approximately 17%.
  
  Free cash flow is expected to be at least $750 million.

[seekalpha](https://seekingalpha.com/news/4407548-zebra-technologies-beats-top-line-and-bottom-line-estimates-initiates-q1-and-fy25-outlook)
