---
title: "Musk says xAI’s Grok 3 coming soon, outperforms all rivals"
date: "2025-02-13 13:36:28"
summary: "Grok 3, the latest iteration of the artificial intelligence chatbot developed by Elon Musk's company xAI, is in the final stages of development and will be rolled out in about a week or two, Musk said on Thursday. \"Grok 3 has very powerful reasoning capabilities, so in the tests that..."
categories:
  - "seekalpha"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "seekalpha"
menu: ""
thumbnail: "https://static.seekingalpha.com/cdn/s3/uploads/getty_images/1494104649/image_1494104649.jpg"
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Grok 3, the latest iteration of the artificial intelligence chatbot developed by Elon Musk's company xAI, is in the final stages of development and will be rolled out in about a week or two, Musk said on Thursday.

"Grok 3 has very powerful reasoning capabilities, so in the tests that we've done thus far, Grok 3 is **outperforming anything that's been released**, that we're aware of, so that's a good sign," Musk said in a video call addressing the World Governments Summit in Dubai.

Grok 3 will be competing with several major AI chatbots, including ChatGPT (OpenAI), Gemini (Google DeepMind), Claude (Anthropic), Mistral AI and Meta’s ([META](https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/META "Meta Platforms, Inc.")) Llama.

Musk stated that the upcoming model from his company, xAI, was trained using synthetic data and has the ability to analyze its own mistakes. By revisiting and cross-referencing data, it strives to achieve greater logical consistency.

“At times I think **Grok 3 is scary smart,” Musk added**.

In addition to sharing updates on Grok 3, the billionaire discussed his own work on AI, his role in the Donald Trump administration, and his views on Sam Altman's OpenAI.

Musk founded xAI as a challenger to Alphabet's Google ([GOOG](https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/GOOG "Alphabet Inc.")) ([GOOGL](https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/GOOGL "Alphabet Inc.")) and Microsoft-backed ([MSFT](https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/MSFT "Microsoft Corporation")) OpenAI. Taking a dig at OpenAI, Musk said “OpenAI is meant to be open source, non-profit and now they changed the name to closed for maximum profit AI. They’re after money next level.”

The comments come days after a group led by Musk made an [unsolicited $97.4B bid](https://seekingalpha.com/news/4405782-musk-led-group-makes-unsolicited-974b-bid-for-nonprofit-that-controls-openai-report "unsolicited $97.4B bid") for the non-profit entity that controls OpenAI.

Musk co-founded OpenAI alongside Altman in 2015, but no longer owns a stake in the company. He filed a lawsuit against OpenAI and Sam Altman last year for allegedly putting profit ahead of benefiting humanity.

"I think the evidence is there in that OpenAI has gotten this far while having at least a sort of dual profit, non-profit role. What they're trying to do now is to completely delete the non-profit, and that seems really going too far,” Musk said.

[seekalpha](https://seekingalpha.com/news/4407459-musk-says-xais-grok-3-coming-soon-outperforms-all-rivals)
