---
title: "Shou Chew 'working closely' with U.S. govt to decide TikTok's fate, to cut overlapping roles"
date: "2025-02-13 20:28:37"
summary: "Shou Chew is working closely with the Trump administration to determine the best course of action for TikTok's (BDNCE) future in the U.S., The Information reported Thursday, citing the CEO of the short video content app who reportedly shared the details in a staff meeting Wednesday. At the meeting, Chew..."
categories:
  - "seekalpha"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "seekalpha"
menu: ""
thumbnail: "https://static.seekingalpha.com/cdn/s3/uploads/getty_images/1227952364/image_1227952364.jpg"
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Shou Chew is working closely with the Trump administration to determine the best course of action for TikTok's ([BDNCE](https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/BDNCE "ByteDance")) future in the U.S., *The Information* reported Thursday, citing the CEO of the short video content app who reportedly shared the details in a staff meeting Wednesday.

At the meeting, Chew discussed that his company is looking to terminate overlapping roles within TikTok. “We have to review our teams. We have to remove unnecessary layers,” Chew reportedly said, and added that such efforts were “tough things we have to do.”

Chew reportedly said at the meeting that TikTok is working closely with a “key person” from the Trump administration who is in charge of the issue, and there’s a group of people, including him, who are working on resolving this issue every day.

ByteDance CFO Julie Gao at the meeting said the company’s costs and expenses last year increased at a faster pace than revenue and profit.

The report also said DeepSeek’s success is causing Chinese tech companies to reflect on why their own AI development teams didn’t deliver the same kind of success and impact earlier. “Maybe our goal setting wasn’t very good. Maybe our goals were not very ambitious or focused,” ByteDance chairman Liang Rubo said through a translator during the meeting.

Liang also said that having a strong competitor like DeepSeek "is good because it keeps ByteDance motivated and sharp."

Several parties have expressed their interest in TikTok U.S. after a sale-or-ban law was passed on grounds of national security by the Biden administration. Canadian investor and *Shark Tank* star Kevin O’Leary and billionaire Frank McCourt had reportedly prepared a $20B bid for the app.

Recently, President Donald Trump said that Microsoft ([MSFT](https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/MSFT "Microsoft Corporation")) is also among the companies keen on buying TikTok, and his administration had said it is working on a plan to save the app through Oracle's ([ORCL](https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/ORCL "Oracle Corporation")) involvement. A group of American investors, along with top YouTuber MrBeast, are also willing to offer more than $20B to buy TikTok U.S.

[seekalpha](https://seekingalpha.com/news/4407916-shou-chew-working-closely-with-u_s_-govt-to-decide-tiktoks-fate-to-cut-overlapping-roles)
