---
title: "Federal government's voluntary resignation offer gets ~75K takers - report"
date: "2025-02-13 18:54:32"
summary: "About 75K federal workers signed up for the government's deferred resignation program, fewer than the administration had hoped for, according to a media report on Thursday. The federal government offered to pay federal workers until Sept. 30 if they'll resign now. The Office of Personnel Management's FAQ on the program..."
categories:
  - "seekalpha"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "seekalpha"
menu: ""
thumbnail: "https://static.seekingalpha.com/cdn/s3/uploads/getty_images/2198970118/image_2198970118.jpg"
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

About 75K federal workers signed up for the government's deferred resignation program, fewer than the administration had hoped for, according to a media report on Thursday.

The federal government offered to pay federal workers until Sept. 30 if they'll resign now. The Office of Personnel Management's FAQ on the program had encouraged workers who accept the offer to take a long vacation or start another job, even though the federal government will continue to pay them in the interim.

Bloomberg [reported](https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2025-02-13/musk-s-buyout-falls-short-as-75-000-federal-workers-took-deal?srnd=homepage-americas "reported") late Wednesday the number of employees who voluntarily resigned, citing a person familiar with the data.

Originally, the Trump administration had targeted a 5%-10% acceptance rate for the plan, which would have required at least ~120K of the 2.4M civilian federal workforce to accept. The lower take-up rate (the 7K represents ~3% of the workforce) could mean the government will fire more people than it had expected.

The original deadline for the offer was Feb. 6, but that was extended to Wednesday, Feb. 12, as a federal judge temporarily blocked the program to consider a challenge from unions. On Wednesday, Judge George A. O’Toole Jr., a U.S. District Court judge in the District of Massachusetts, removed the block, saying the unions did not have "standing" to challenge the program. He did not rule on the legality of the offer, though.

On Tuesday, President Donald Trump signed an executive order that told agency heads to "promptly undertake preparations to initiate large-scale reductions in force."

The resignation offer, known as "Fork in the Road," closed on Feb. 12 at 7:20 PM ET.

**Dear readers:** We recognize that politics often intersects with the financial news of the day, so we invite you to click [here to join the separate political discussion.](https://seekingalpha.com/article/4752451-politics-and-the-markets-021325 "here to join the separate political discussion.")

[seekalpha](https://seekingalpha.com/news/4407762-federal-governments-voluntary-resignation-offer-gets-75k-takers-report)
