---
title: "Dutch Bros' finds the right blend to deliver stellar Q4 results"
date: "2025-02-13 19:50:23"
summary: "Dutch Bros (NYSE:BROS) meteoric rise continues during Thursday’s regular session as the coffee chain’s latest quarterly results and aggressive guidance launched the stock more than 30% higher to a record high. “Dutch Bros not only delivered another quarter of +30% growth in revenue and EBITDA, but it also projected a..."
categories:
  - "seekalpha"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "seekalpha"
menu: ""
thumbnail: "https://static.seekingalpha.com/cdn/s3/uploads/getty_images/2164610527/image_2164610527.jpg"
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Dutch Bros (NYSE:[BROS](https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/BROS "Dutch Bros Inc.")) meteoric rise continues during Thursday’s regular session as the coffee chain’s latest [quarterly results](https://seekingalpha.com/news/4407201-dutch-bros-shares-soar-as-q4-results-guidance-crushes-estimates#scroll_comments " quarterly results ")  and aggressive guidance launched the stock more than 30% higher to a record high.

“Dutch Bros not only delivered another quarter of +30% growth in revenue and EBITDA, but it also projected a strong outlook that pleasantly caught many analysts by surprise,” said Seeking Alpha analyst [Uttam Dey](https://seekingalpha.com/author/uttam-dey "Uttam Dey"), citing the company’s ability to maintain traffic at its existing stores while simultaneously adding to its footprint.

“This was one of the main reasons why Dutch Bros was able to score revenue growth of 35% to 342.8M in Q4, despite its system-wide same-shop sales growing 7% in the same quarter,” he added.

Traffic-driven same shop sales were driven by multiple levers which will continue to benefit the company in 2025, UBS's Dennis Geiger says, as traffic was powered by menu innovation and promotions, paid advertising, and Dutch Rewards incentive program.

The mobile order rollout is also generating increased visit frequency, accounting for 8% of BROS sales mix, an improvement of 100 basis points from the previous quarter.

“We continue to observe that customers who use mobile orders increase their frequency, and mobile order penetration is more than twice the level of our overall system in some of our newer markets,” said Dutch Bros CEO Christine Barone on the company’s earnings call.

“We are most pleased that despite Q4’s strength, mobile order only increased from 7% of sales in Q3 to 8%, suggesting the initiative is still in its early innings,” TD Cowen’s Andrew Charles wrote.

The stock’s rally in both after-hours and during Thursday’s session was also fueled by BROS outlook for this year, targeting sales above Wall Street’s expectations with 160 new stores expected to open in 2025, and same shop sales pegged for 2% to 4% growth.  

 “Our sense is that investors are going to view its Q1 and FY25 [same shop sales] guidance as being (very) conservative,” Piper Sandler’s Brian Mullan said in a research note, adding that he expects adjusted EBITDA and EPS estimates to migrate higher towards the end of Q1.

UBS’s Geiger agrees that 2025 guidance could be raised if momentum continues and believes the shares remain attractive given leading store expansion, accelerating same shop sales momentum, and a “compelling multiyear catalyst path supportive of earnings upside.”

While coffee inflation could pressure Dutch Bros’ (NYSE:[BROS](https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/BROS "Dutch Bros Inc.")) margins, most analysts concede that the difference will be more than compensated for by sales leverage, and manageable costs, including those for labor.

“We model 17.5% 2025 adjusted EBITDA margins, reflecting modest pricing, but also labor investments with commodities including dairy and coffee as headwinds,” said Geiger.

“Management has resiliently demonstrated its dexterity at handling costs by keeping labor cost pressures and Food and Beverage cost pressures under control, [and although] runaway coffee prices are a big risk, the confidence and the extent of risk planning along with the generous details that Dutch Bros offered on the earnings call are very reassuring to me,” Seeking Alpha’s Dey said.

Dey, UBS, and TD Cowen all give Dutch Bros (NYSE:[BROS](https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/BROS "Dutch Bros Inc.")) a Buy rating, while Piper Sandler gives BROS a Neutral rating, as the firm is unwilling to chase [the stock] at current levels." All raised their respective price targets by 34% to 36%.

[seekalpha](https://seekingalpha.com/news/4407798-dutch-bros-finds-right-blend-deliver-stellar-q4-results)
