---
title: "Ubisoft posts sharp drop in Q3 net bookings; Assassin’s Creed Shadows release on track"
date: "2025-02-13 22:07:10"
summary: "Ubisoft (OTCPK:UBSFY) (OTCPK:UBSFF) on Thursday reported a 52% drop in net bookings in the third quarter and guided just in line for the full year. Net bookings for Q3 are €301.8M compared with €626.2M a year earlier. The Bloomberg consensus estimate is €302.3M. For the full year, it is expected..."
categories:
  - "seekalpha"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "seekalpha"
menu: ""
thumbnail: "https://static.seekingalpha.com/cdn/s3/uploads/getty_images/1155080571/image_1155080571.jpg"
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Ubisoft ([OTCPK:UBSFY](https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/UBSFY "Ubisoft Entertainment SA")) ([OTCPK:UBSFF](https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/UBSFF "Ubisoft Entertainment SA")) on Thursday reported a 52% drop in net bookings in the third quarter and guided just in line for the full year.

Net bookings for Q3 are €301.8M compared with €626.2M a year earlier. The *Bloomberg* consensus estimate is €302.3M. For the full year, it is expected to be around €1.9B vs. estimates of €1.88B.

The publisher behind the popular *Assassin’s Creed* game series said the next iteration of the game, titled "*Assassin’s Creed Shadows,*" will launch on March 20. The game was expected to launch earlier but was delayed to give game developers more time to make changes after receiving feedback from playtests.

"Preorders are tracking solidly, in line with those of Assassin’s Creed Odyssey, the second most successful entry of the franchise… The dual-protagonist gameplay was particularly well received, offering two distinct playstyles that cater to different player preferences as well as both characters playing critical roles in the game’s storyline," Ubisoft said Thursday.

Ubisoft said it now expects fixed cost reductions to exceed €200M in FY2024-25 and added that it is still reviewing strategic options for its business and has established an ad-hoc independent committee to oversee the process.

In January, *Bloomberg* reported that Chinese conglomerate Tencent ([OTCPK:TCEHY](https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/TCEHY "Tencent Holdings Limited")) ([OTCPK:TCTZF](https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/TCTZF "Tencent Holdings Limited")) and France's Guillemot family are looking to create a new venture that would include certain assets of Ubisoft in a bid to boost the video game publisher’s value. Tencent and the Guillemot family are reportedly evaluating assets to include in a new entity and trying to determine their valuation.

The Guillemot family has about a 14% stake in the company they founded. Tencent is Ubisoft's second-largest holder with almost a 10% stake in the company.

[seekalpha](https://seekingalpha.com/news/4408007-ubisoft-posts-sharp-drop-in-q3-net-bookings-assassins-creed-shadows-release-on-track)
