---
title: "Unilever falls after issuing cautious guidance, updating on the ice cream separation"
date: "2025-02-13 22:03:40"
summary: "Unilever (NYSE:UL) traded lower on Thursday after the consumer products company reported full-year results. Underlying sales growth for the full year was 4.2%, led by volume of 2.9%. As expected, underlying price growth moderated to 1.3%. Turnover was €60.8 billion, up 1.9% versus the prior year, with underlying sales growth..."
categories:
  - "seekalpha"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "seekalpha"
menu: ""
thumbnail: "https://static.seekingalpha.com/cdn/s3/uploads/getty_images/1860725361/image_1860725361.jpg"
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Unilever (NYSE:[UL](https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/UL "Unilever PLC")) traded lower on Thursday after the consumer products company reported full-year results.

Underlying sales growth for the full year was 4.2%, led by volume of 2.9%. As expected, underlying price growth moderated to 1.3%. Turnover was €60.8 billion, up 1.9% versus the prior year, with underlying sales growth of 4.2% more than offsetting the -0.7% impact from currency and -1.5% from disposals net of acquisitions.

The company's Power Brands segment contributed >75% of turnover and performed strongly with 5.3% underlying sales growth, driven by volume growth of 3.8%. The rest of the business also delivered improved volumes, with volume growth of 0.7% in the second half, up from -1.6% in the first half of 2024.

Underlying operating profit was €11.2 billion, up 12.6% versus the prior year. Underlying operating margin increased 170 basis points to 18.4% of sales. The step-up in profitability contributed to a 190 basis point increase in underlying ROIC to 18.1%.

Looking ahead, Unilever (NYSE:[UL](https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/UL "Unilever PLC")) warned that it anticipates a slower start to 2025 with subdued market growth in the near term. "We expect the market and our growth to improve during the year as price increases, reflecting higher commodity costs in 2025. We expect a more balanced split between volume and price," updated Unilever ([UL](https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/UL "Unilever PLC")) management.

Unilever ([UL](https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/UL "Unilever PLC")) said the separation of the ice cream business is on track to be completed by the end of 2025. The company noted that it is making progress on the key workstreams, including the legal entities set up, implementing the standalone operating model and preparing the carve-out financials.

The ice cream business will be separated by way of demerger, through listing of the business in Amsterdam, London and New York, the same three exchanges on which Unilever PLC ([UL](https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/UL "Unilever PLC")) shares are currently traded. The ice cream business will be incorporated in the Netherlands and will continue to be headquartered in Amsterdam. That decision followed a full review by the board of separation options, focused on maximizing returns for shareholders.

The primary listing for the new ice cream company will be on the Euronext Amsterdam exchange.

Shares of Unilever ([UL](https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/UL "Unilever PLC")) were down 5.8% in afternoon trading.

[seekalpha](https://seekingalpha.com/news/4408002-unilever-falls-after-issuing-cautious-guidance-updating-on-the-ice-cream-separation)
