---
title: "Politics And The Markets 02/10/25"
date: "2025-02-10 08:00:00"
summary: "This is the forum for daily political discussion on Seeking Alpha. A new version is published every market day. Please don't leave political comments on other articles or posts on the site. The comments below are not regulated with the same rigor as the rest of the site, and this..."
categories:
  - "seekalpha_articles"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "seekalpha_articles"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

This is the forum for daily political discussion on Seeking Alpha. A new version is published every market day.

Please don't leave political comments on other articles or posts on the site.

The comments below are not regulated with the same rigor as the rest of the site, and this is an **'enter at your own risk'** area as discussion can get very heated. If you can't stand the heat... you know what they say...

**More on Today's Markets:**

**Moderation Guidelines:**

We remove comments under the following categories:

* Personal attacks on another user account
* Anti-Vaxxer or covid related misinformation
* Stereotyping, prejudiced or racist language about individuals or the topic under discussion.
* Inciting violence messages, encouraging hate groups and political violence.

Regardless of which side of the political divide you find yourself, please be courteous and don't direct abuse at other users.

For any issue with regards to comments please email us at : moderation@seekingalpha.com.

**Seeking Alpha's Disclosure:** Past performance is no guarantee of future results. No recommendation or advice is being given as to whether any investment is suitable for a particular investor. Any views or opinions expressed above may not reflect those of Seeking Alpha as a whole. Seeking Alpha is not a licensed securities dealer, broker or US investment adviser or investment bank. Our analysts are third party authors that include both professional investors and individual investors who may not be licensed or certified by any institute or regulatory body.

[seekalpha_articles](https://seekingalpha.com/article/4752448-politics-and-the-markets-021025)
