---
title: "Reddit turns second quarterly profit since IPO but shares slide on user-growth miss"
date: "2025-02-13 06:40:48"
summary: "By James Rogers Shares tumble despite better-than-expected fourth-quarter earnings and revenue Reddit Inc. turned its second quarterly profit since becoming a public company, but shares fell after daily active unique users - which topped 100 million for the first time - fell short of expectations. The San Francisco-based company's shares..."
categories:
  - "morningstar"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "morningstar"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By James Rogers

Shares tumble despite better-than-expected fourth-quarter earnings and revenue

Reddit Inc. turned its second quarterly profit since becoming a public company, but shares fell after daily active unique users - which topped 100 million for the first time - fell short of expectations.

The San Francisco-based company's shares fell 15% in extended trading Wednesday, despite Reddit's better-than-expected fourth-quarter earnings and revenue.

Daily active unique users rose to 101.7 million in the fourth quarter, up 39% from 73.1 million in the previous year's quarter but below the FactSet consensus for 103.12 million users.

Reddit Chief Executive Steve Huffman said in a letter to shareholders that user numbers dipped in the fourth quarter due to some "volatility" caused by a Google Search algorithm change, but that traffic has recovered in the current quarter.

Reddit's (RDDT) quarterly profit was its second on a GAAP basis since its initial public offering in March 2024. The company reported net income of $71 million, or 36 cents a share, compared with net income of $18.5 million in the year-ago quarter. Analysts surveyed by FactSet were expecting earnings of 25 cents a share.

"Q4 was a strong ending to a solid opening year for Reddit," Reddit Chief Financial Officer Drew Vollero told MarketWatch.

Related: Reddit teams with Intercontinental Exchange to build financial-analytics products

Reddit's revenue rose 71% to $427.7 million, from $249.8 million a year ago, above the FactSet consensus of $405 million.

"We're growing revenue faster than peers - 71% revenue growth is a really good number - it shows that Reddit resonates with both advertisers and consumers," he added.

"It was another strong quarter as we accomplished exciting milestones across revenue and international growth," Huffman said in a statement.

Related: Reddit's stock gets a boost as social-media platform ramps up AI-powered search with Reddit Answers

International daily active unique users grew 46% to 53.7 million in the quarter, outpacing the U.S., where daily active unique users grew 32% to 48 million.

The social-media company's international revenue was $80 million, up 76% from $45.4 million in the same period last year. U.S. revenue grew 70% to $347.7 million, marking the first time since 2023 that Reddit's international revenue has grown faster than domestic, according to Vollero.

Reddit defines a daily active unique as a user that the company can identify with a unique identifier who has visited a page on the Reddit website or opened a Reddit application at least once over a 24-hour period.

Reddit CFO Vollero highlighted, in particular, Reddit's work around Machine Translation, or translating content for global audiences, which drove between 40% and 50% of Reddit's international user growth during the fourth quarter.

Related: Reddit's stock soars after social-media platform turns a profit, beats Q3 sales and earnings estimates

"The quality of Machine Translation has really improved in the last 12 to 18 months," Vollero said.

Machine translation is available in eight languages - French, Spanish, Italian, Portuguese, German, Swedish, Dutch and Filipino - and Reddit said that the company is on track to expand to international markets this year.

Reddit's fourth-quarter gross margin was 92.6%, an improvement of 420 basis points on the same period last year. Vollero said that the gross margin improvement was fueled by the company's increasing revenue and also the renegotiation of deals with two of the company's cloud providers.

For the first quarter, Reddit expects revenue in the range of $360 million to $370 million, above the FactSet consensus of $358 million. The company also expects adjusted Ebitda in the range of $80 million to $90 million.

Reddit shares have risen 329.2% since the company's IPO last year.

-James Rogers

This content was created by MarketWatch, which is operated by Dow Jones & Co. MarketWatch is published independently from Dow Jones Newswires and The Wall Street Journal.

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

02-12-25 1732ET

Copyright (c) 2025 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

[morningstar](https://www.morningstar.com/news/marketwatch/20250212604/reddit-turns-second-quarterly-profit-since-ipo-but-shares-slide-on-user-growth-miss)
