---
title: "France Attracts More Than $100 Billion in Future AI Investments, Macron Says"
date: "2025-02-10 16:40:55"
summary: "By Pierre Bertrand France has attracted in excess of $100 billion in future investments for artificial intelligence projects, President Emmanuel Macron said as the country hosts the AI Action Summit this week. President Macron said in an interview with France 2 that in the coming years, 109 billion euros ($112.59..."
categories:
  - "morningstar"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "morningstar"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Pierre Bertrand

France has attracted in excess of $100 billion in future investments for artificial intelligence projects, President Emmanuel Macron said as the country hosts the AI Action Summit this week.

President Macron said in an interview with France 2 that in the coming years, 109 billion euros ($112.59 billion) would be invested in the sector in France by both domestic and foreign investors.

The statement came ahead of the Paris summit starting Monday, bringing together politicians, industry leaders, policymakers and academics.

Macron said Sunday that the amount was France's equivalent of the U.S. unveiling of the $500 billion Stargate AI infrastructure project led by OpenAI.

The investments include an agreement between France and the United Arab Emirates to build a dedicated artificial intelligence campus, the French government said last week.

French telecommunications company Iliad Group said Friday that it was investing 3 billion euros into research and into AI infrastructure including in data centers and in computing power.

Investment firm Brookfield is also among the investors, reportedly planning to spend 20 billion euros in the country, according to local French and international media.

Write to Pierre Bertrand at pierre.bertrand@wsj.com

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

February 10, 2025 03:24 ET (08:24 GMT)

Copyright (c) 2025 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

[morningstar](https://www.morningstar.com/news/dow-jones/202502101870/france-attracts-more-than-100-billion-in-future-ai-investments-macron-says)
