---
title: "Dutch Bros shares rocket higher after earnings amid plans to expand mobile orders, food service"
date: "2025-02-13 08:21:01"
summary: "By Bill Peters Results come as Starbucks tries to overhaul its cafes and simplify its menu in hopes of restoring sales growth Shares of Dutch Bros Inc. rocketed higher in extended trading Wednesday after the coffee chain put out fourth-quarter results and a full-year sales forecast that topped Wall Street's..."
categories:
  - "morningstar"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "morningstar"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Bill Peters

Results come as Starbucks tries to overhaul its cafes and simplify its menu in hopes of restoring sales growth

Shares of Dutch Bros Inc. rocketed higher in extended trading Wednesday after the coffee chain put out fourth-quarter results and a full-year sales forecast that topped Wall Street's expectations, amid plans to expand mobile ordering and its food selection.

The company - which calls its coffee-shop workers "broistas" and whose beverages tend to go heavier on the flavoring and toppings than Starbucks Corp., its much larger rival - said it expects sales this year between $1.555 billion and $1.575 billion. That was above FactSet forecasts for $1.529 billion.

However, the midpoint of Dutch Bros' (BROS) same-store sales forecast for a 2% to 4% gain was in line with Wall Street's expectations for 3% growth.

Dutch Bros reported fourth-quarter revenue of $342.8 million, up 34.9% and above the $342.8 million forecast by FactSet. The company had same-store sales growth of 6.9% and adjusted earnings per share of 7 cents. Both were above expectations.

Shares jumped 25% after hours on Wednesday. The stock as of Wednesday's close had run 134.9% higher over the past 12 months.

"Our efforts to develop our foundational transaction drivers - innovation, paid media, and our Dutch Rewards loyalty program - are working," Chief Executive Christine Barone said in a statement. "We believe these efforts are contributing to current momentum and that there is considerable runway for further growth."

"Additionally, we see a clear path forward, with multi-year transaction driving initiatives that layer on top of this foundation, with opportunity to unlock throughput and ramp mobile order in 2025," she continued. "In 2026 and beyond, we are excited about opportunities with expanding our food offerings."

The previous quarter was Dutch Bros' first full one with mobile ordering. The chain reported the results as Starbucks (SBUX), under new leadership, tries to overhaul its cafes, simplify its food and drink menu and untangle its mobile-ordering and pickup process in hopes of better managing consumer traffic and restoring sales growth.

During Dutch Bros' earnings call, Barone said the company was benefiting from demand for iced drinks and customized energy drinks. Holiday-season drinks, like Hazelnut Truffle Mocha and Candy Cane Mocha, were popular during the quarter.

The company recently opened its 1,000th store, and said it expects to open at least 160 more this year. It is leaning into more advertising and its rewards program, and recently began testing food to see how it would work in its stores.

Barone said initial showings from that test suggest expanding it could work. But she said there would be "guardrails" to any such additions.

"First, broista job satisfaction," she said during the call. "As we expand their roles, we must consider how to do so in ways that continue to foster a fun and energetic work experience that assures we continue to attract and retain the very best people."

"Second, a targeted assortment focused on capturing the food attach opportunity and a potential incremental beverage opportunity, while minimizing complexity," she continued. "Third, no impact to throughput."

-Bill Peters

This content was created by MarketWatch, which is operated by Dow Jones & Co. MarketWatch is published independently from Dow Jones Newswires and The Wall Street Journal.

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

02-12-25 1917ET

Copyright (c) 2025 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

[morningstar](https://www.morningstar.com/news/marketwatch/20250212635/dutch-bros-shares-rocket-higher-after-earnings-amid-plans-to-expand-mobile-orders-food-service)
