---
title: "CVS Stock Rises on Better-than-Feared Results, Outlook"
date: "2025-02-13 00:30:58"
summary: "By Dean Seal CVS Health stock is on track for its best day since October 2008 after the company turned in fourth-quarter results and 2025 guidance that weren't as bad as investors may have expected. The stock is up 15% at $63.33 in early trading, building into a 41% year-to-date..."
categories:
  - "morningstar"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "morningstar"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Dean Seal

CVS Health stock is on track for its best day since October 2008 after the company turned in fourth-quarter results and 2025 guidance that weren't as bad as investors may have expected.

The stock is up 15% at $63.33 in early trading, building into a 41% year-to-date gain. The solid start of the year came after hefty declines in 2024. This time a year ago, the stock was trading at around $77.29.

The healthcare heavyweight has been managing higher-than-expected medical costs in its Aetna insurance unit that weighed on results last year. But adjusted earnings of $1.19 a share in the last three months of 2024 cleared analyst forecasts for 91 cents a share, according to FactSet.

The company also reported Wednesday that revenue rose 4% to $97.71 billion, beating analyst targets for $97.09 billion. The top line was boosted by growth in CVS's healthcare benefits and pharmacy segments, more than offsetting a decline in its health service segment.

CVS is guiding for adjusted earnings of $5.75 to $6 a share for 2025, in line with the consensus estimate of analysts polled by Factset.

Both the results and the guidance were better than feared, Mizuho analysts said in a research note on Wednesday, and management sounded positive on the company's earnings call.

"We continue to believe 2025 is a transition year that should set the company on a multi-year path to a recovery in margins in the health insurance business," the analysts said.

Write to Dean Seal at dean.seal@wsj.com

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

February 12, 2025 11:17 ET (16:17 GMT)

Copyright (c) 2025 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

[morningstar](https://www.morningstar.com/news/dow-jones/202502129877/cvs-stock-rises-on-better-than-feared-results-outlook)
