---
title: "$26 million Beverly Hills mansion is just one of the gems in Justin Bieber's real estate portfolio"
date: "2025-02-12 18:10:50"
summary: "By Kelsi Karruli Some speculate that the Biebers' marriage is in trouble Justin Bieber has sparked major health concerns among fans with his changing appearance amid ongoing rumors about a rift in his marriage to wife Hailey Bieber. The 30-year-old \"That Should Be Me\" hitmaker has been the focus of..."
categories:
  - "morningstar"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "morningstar"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Kelsi Karruli

Some speculate that the Biebers' marriage is in trouble

Justin Bieber has sparked major health concerns among fans with his changing appearance amid ongoing rumors about a rift in his marriage to wife Hailey Bieber.

The 30-year-old "That Should Be Me" hitmaker has been the focus of dozens of headlines in recent weeks after being pictured on numerous occasions looking "gaunt" and "exhausted."

This has led some to speculate that he and Hailey-who have been married for six years and share a son, Jack, together-are "headed for divorce," rumors they attempted to shut down with a joint public outing in New York together on Feb. 5.

Justin and Hailey have yet to address the speculation about the state of their marriage, with the latter choosing to remain out of the public eye as much as possible, instead choosing to hunker down inside their "private and secluded" $26 million Beverly Hills, Calif., estate with their child.

The seven-bedroom, 10-bathroom property, which the couple purchased in 2020, serves as the ideal sanctuary for anyone hoping to remain away from prying eyes, thanks in large part to its location inside one of Los Angeles' "most sought-after guard-gated" communities.

Described in its original listing as being set "in the middle of park-like grounds" that span more than 2.5 acres, the home was hailed as offering the utmost privacy and seclusion to its owners.

The home features state-of-the-art amenities and comes complete with a stunning entrance area, an expansive living room, a formal dining room, a chef's kitchen, and a sensational theater room.

It also boasts plenty of windows that overlook the lush landscaping and allow a flood of natural light into the space.

Bieber's home also holds a lavish swimming pool, tennis court, and outdoor living and dining rooms with a barbecue, pizza oven, and koi pond.

When heading upstairs, guests are met with six stunning bedrooms, including a master suite with a separate sitting area, dual closets, and bathrooms with heated floors.

According to its original listing, "this estate is perfect for large scale entertaining, set in the middle of park-like grounds, completely private and secluded."

The pop sensation-who welcomed son Jack in August-spent his teen years building a name for himself in the music industry and splashing out funds on lavish rentals.

Although he was infamous for renting-and trashing-properties throughout his teen years and his early 20s, his current real estate holdings tell a very different story.

In fact, the Beverly Hills home is just one of the gems in the Biebers' real estate portfolio, which has been expanded extensively since they got engaged in 2018.

Prior to that, Justin had bounced around from rental to rental, a tactic that sparked many questions from real estate insiders who were perplexed by why he appeared so reluctant to snap up his own home.

However, it seems that becoming a husband was the push that Justin needed to also become a homeowner, and several real estate investments quickly followed his proposal to Hailey.

Palms Springs vacation property

In 2023, the Biebers forked out $16.6 million for a stunning La Quinta, Calif., home which they have been using as their primary vacation residence.

The home sits on an acre within Coachella Valley's Madison Club community, which A-listers such as Scooter Braun, Adele, Kris Jenner, and Kourtney Kardashian also call home.

Their vacation rental was built in 2009 and boasts a French-inspired aesthetic along with seven bedrooms and nine bathrooms.

The 10,000-square-foot property also has its very own guesthouse, tennis court, and a massive swimming pool.

Beverly Hills Monterey home

In 2018, Hailey and her husband splashed out $8.5 million on a 1930s Monterey Colonial in Beverly Hills. The home spans 6,132 square feet, five bedrooms, seven bathroom, and a sunken family room.

It also came complete with a wood-paneled library, a theater room, a wet bar, and a lavish wine cellar.

Meanwhile, the back of the home featured an infinity pool and a cabana, making it the ultimate place for relaxation.

By the fall, the singer grew tired of his home and took to social media to reveal that he would be saying goodbye to it.

"I think I wanna sell my home in Beverly Hills who wants it," he said in the post.

He then made yet another post revealing that he was wiling to sell the property with all the furniture in it, "MAKE AN OFFER," he said.

The Biebers formally listed the home for $8.9 million in late 2020 and sold it for $7.9 million in February 2021.

Toluca Lake rental

The couple rented a Spanish-style home for $100,000 a month just after their courthouse wedding in September 2018.

The property was reported to be on the market for $8.5 million; however, Bieber was believed to have negotiated a month-to-month lease while he and his spouse searched for a permanent property.

It sprawled across 7,000 square feet and came complete with five bedrooms and seven bathrooms. It also had its own recording studio, gym, and a six-car garage.

This was his second Toluca Lake rental, the first being in early 2016 amid rumors of his romance with Hailey. At the time, he snagged a $80,000-a-month rental in the area.

Ontario lake house

In July 2018, the couple got engaged and just one month later, Bieber purchased a $5 million home in Ontario, Canada.

The waterfront property boasts a 9,000-square-foot main house, four bedrooms and six bathrooms, as well as a private gym, a game room, a movie theater, a two-story wine cellar, and three fireplaces.

The couple still owns this stunning lake house and often goes back to it when missing Canada, which is where they both hail from.

Beverly Hills pad and across-the-pond estate

In 2016, Bieber splashed out $55,000 on a rental property that featured six bedrooms and five bathrooms and measured 8,600 square feet.

The property boasted a see-through fish tank set into the wall, a spa-worthy bathroom, and a lavish pool.

Just before he snagged the Beverly Hills home, Bieber was situated in a $133,000-a-month mansion in northwest London.

The property spanned 27,000 square feet and sat on 2.5 acres. It featured 15 bedrooms, 13 bathrooms, two kitchens, and a wine cellar.

It also boasted a tennis court, two pools, and a five-car garage.

At the time, it was believed that Bieber was splitting his time between L.A. and London.

Salad spinner home

In 2014, Bieber raised eyebrows when he rented a uniquely shaped home for $59,000 a month.

The property was branded the "Salad Spinner House" for its curved glass framework. It included six bedrooms, 6.5 baths along, and a seven-car garage.

Bieber rented the home for just two months and then left it because it didn't offer up enough privacy.

The property is now back on the market for $34.9 million.

More from Realtor.com: Exquisite French Normandy-Inspired Manor With 1,000-Bottle Wine Cellar Hits the Market in Connecticut for $11.25 Million

Hollywood party pad

The singer then rented a Lake Hollywood home for $29,500 a month. It featured 10 bedrooms and 18 bathrooms and was previously known to host the 2012 "American Idol" cast and film Playboy TV's "Swing."

The property was once converted to a fitness retreat center and also boasted its own nightclub, movie theater, and bar.

More from Realtor.com: Texas Is the Fastest-Growing State in the U.S.-and Now the Race Is On To Build More Homes

Early Atlanta property

Months before he got his hands on his Lake Hollywood estate, the "Baby" hitmaker rented a spaceship-inspired home in Atlanta.

Bieber rented the four-bedroom property, which spanned 5,500 square feet, for three months so he could be closer to his mentor, Usher, while he created an album.

The home featured a game room and a large pool, making it the perfect spot for relaxing and entertaining.

More from Realtor.com: Boomers Are Spending Big Bucks on Home Renovations So They Don't Have To Move

First Calabasas home

By the time he was 15, Bieber was considered a pop sensation; and three years later, he made his first property purchase.

In 2012, he forked over $6.5 million for a home in the gated community of Calabasas-The Oaks.

More from Realtor.com: Can a Landlord Legally Lock Up Your Thermostat and Limit Your Hot Water?

The Spanish-inspired abode featured a home theater, a library, a wine cellar, and a swimming pool.

While there, Bieber infamously ignited chaos when he threw eggs at his neighbor's home and was then forced to pay $80,900 in restitution.

In 2014, the singer sold his mansion to Khloe Kardashian for $7.2 million.

This story originally ran on Realtor.com.

This content was created by MarketWatch, which is operated by Dow Jones & Co. MarketWatch is published independently from Dow Jones Newswires and The Wall Street Journal.

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

02-12-25 0504ET

Copyright (c) 2025 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

[morningstar](https://www.morningstar.com/news/marketwatch/20250212185/26-million-beverly-hills-mansion-is-just-one-of-the-gems-in-justin-biebers-real-estate-portfolio)
