---
title: "Actress Sarah Paulson delists $1.8 million Malibu mobile home that survived devastating L.A. fires"
date: "2025-02-13 18:15:47"
summary: "By Charlie Lankston Just 15 miles away, another prestigious mobile home park was destroyed \"American Horror Story\" star Sarah Paulson has quietly removed the listing for her ultrapricey Malibu mobile home just weeks after the local area was decimated by the deadly California wildfires. Paulson, 50, initially listed the property..."
categories:
  - "morningstar"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "morningstar"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Charlie Lankston

Just 15 miles away, another prestigious mobile home park was destroyed

"American Horror Story" star Sarah Paulson has quietly removed the listing for her ultrapricey Malibu mobile home just weeks after the local area was decimated by the deadly California wildfires.

Paulson, 50, initially listed the property for $2 million back in May 2024, three years after she purchased it for less than half of that price.

In August of that same year, she offered up a discount to potential buyers, reducing her ask to $1.79 million-but even that steep drop appears to have failed to secure any interested parties.

Now, in the wake of the devastating Palisades Fire, which began tearing through Pacific Palisades on Jan. 7-before quickly blazing through parts of Malibu and Santa Monica-Paulson has made the decision to delist the home altogether.

The one-bedroom, one-bathroom trailer is in one of California's most exclusive (and expensive) mobile home parks, a tony community called Paradise Cove, which has long since attracted wealthy homebuyers thanks to its proximity to the ocean and breathtaking views.

It's understood that Paradise Cove did not sustain any major damage in the fire, with official Cal Fire maps revealing that the trailer park is just outside of the area that was most affected by the blaze.

The fires destroyed thousands of homes-including many that belonged to prominent celebrities, including Paris Hilton, Adam Brody and Leighton Meester, Anna Faris, and Spencer Pratt and Heidi Montag.

"Shark Tank" star Barbara Corcoran also revealed that her $1 million double-wide trailer, which was located in the prestigious Tahitian Terrace Mobile Home Park, was completely destroyed by the flames. She expressed her heartache over the loss in a heartbreaking social media post.

""The devastating fires in L.A. have taken so much from so many this week," the "Shark Tank" star wrote while sharing a video of the blaze obliterating her home.

"The beloved Tahitian Terrace Mobile Home Park in Pacific Palisades, my little slice of heaven, was entirely destroyed when the devastating Palisades Fire rapidly moved through the park on Tuesday."

However, Paradise Cove, which is 15 miles away from Tahitian Terrace, is believed to have escaped completely unscathed.

It may be that Paulson has therefore managed to sell the home in an off-market deal-or that she has simply opted to take the home off the market while Los Angeles continues to recover from the horrifying fires.

Realtor.com has contacted Paulson's spokesperson for comment.

While paying close to $2 million might seem like a tall order, particularly for a home that boasts just one bedroom and one bathroom, it's worth noting that Paulson's property was far from the priciest trailer to have been listed in Paradise Cove in the past 12 months.

There is currently one home on the market in the community with an asking price of $3.75 million-while another listed in August 2023 sold for $3.5 million.

Needless to say, the price of Paulson's trailer park offering paled in comparison.

And to make it all the more appealing, the "American Horror Story" star had even thrown in a golf cart for free, providing a future owner with an easy means of accessing the nearby beaches.

Her trailer home also boasts an impressive heritage, having been featured by Architectural Digest back in 2023, when Paulson proudly showed off the impressive renovations she made to the property.

At the time, the Emmy-winning actress also explained what made her invest in the home, after she paid a visit to a friend who lived in the Malibu area.

"It was January, and the tide was so far out that the beach felt like a moonscape," she recalled to AD. "The cliffs and the water and the light were so beautiful, and my dog went bananas. The ocean never called to me. I'm the person who's afraid there's a shark in my bathtub. But the beach was stunning. How did I live here for so many years and not understand the beauty of the coastline?"

More from Realtor.com: Boomers Are Spending Big Bucks on Home Renovations So They Don't Have To Move

Since purchasing the trailer in 2021 for a relatively meager $860,000, Paulson set about completely overhauling its interior, turning it into what its listing described as a "piece of art."

"This custom-designed jewel box of a property is more than just a home: It's a piece of art, lovingly crafted with unparalleled style and attention to detail," the description said. "Step through the front door and find a serene living space flooded with natural light."

The home even comes complete with its own private patio where residents can enjoy a morning cup of coffee or lounge around in the sun, while enjoying the ocean breeze.

More from Realtor.com: Exquisite French Normandy-Inspired Manor With 1,000-Bottle Wine Cellar Hits the Market in Connecticut for $11.25 Million

Inside, Paulson left no stone unturned with her interior-design approach, creating a stunning, albeit compact, home that features plenty of "space-maximizing features," including custom furnishings and a sleeping loft for guests.

"The kitchen is beautifully anchored by milky-stone countertops shot through with emerald veining that evokes the crashing waves just moments away," the listing goes on. "The wide-plank engineered pine floors and brass fixtures suggest an understated nautical inspiration - intimate and welcoming.

"The elegant bathroom, featuring floor-to-ceiling blush-pink Zellige tiles, is a serene sanctuary-within-a-sanctuary."

More from Realtor.com: Top 5 States with the Most Expensive Property Taxes

Paulson has yet to reveal why she was choosing to let go of her trailer. However, she does own another property in the Los Angeles area-a single-story property in the Hollywood Hills, which she purchased from fellow "American Horror Story" star Emma Roberts in 2016, paying $1.65 million for the abode.

However, Roberts later joked to Paulson that she should have "charged her so much more money," after the latter revealed that she'd discovered a secret swimming pool buried in the backyard.

More from Realtor.com: See Where Insurance Premiums Are Set To Rise-Including One Coastal City Where They Could Go Up by More Than 300%

Speaking to Architectural Digest about her planned renovations for the home, Paulson revealed that she was exploring the option of installing a pool, only for the man who came to check out the potential to discover that there was already one there.

"I had the guy come up, and it turns out there is a pool already underneath the ground!" Paulson revealed. "I just saw [Roberts] the other day and I'm like, 'Did you know you had a pool under there?' She was like, 'WHAT! I WOULD HAVE CHARGED YOU SO MUCH MORE MONEY!'"

This story originally ran on Realtor.com.

This content was created by MarketWatch, which is operated by Dow Jones & Co. MarketWatch is published independently from Dow Jones Newswires and The Wall Street Journal.

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

02-13-25 0501ET

Copyright (c) 2025 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

[morningstar](https://www.morningstar.com/news/marketwatch/20250213182/actress-sarah-paulson-delists-18-million-malibu-mobile-home-that-survived-devastating-la-fires)
