---
title: "What happens to the floral townhome of singer Lily Allen and 'Stranger Things' actor David Harbour if they split?"
date: "2025-02-10 18:16:01"
summary: "By Charlie Lankston The colorful and eccentric Brooklyn wonderland includes a carpeted bathroom and vibrant floral decor Singer Lily Allen and David Harbour have reportedly called it quits on their four-year marriage after months of speculation that their relationship was on the rocks. Allen, 39, and Harbour, 49, wed in..."
categories:
  - "morningstar"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "morningstar"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Charlie Lankston

The colorful and eccentric Brooklyn wonderland includes a carpeted bathroom and vibrant floral decor

Singer Lily Allen and David Harbour have reportedly called it quits on their four-year marriage after months of speculation that their relationship was on the rocks.

Allen, 39, and Harbour, 49, wed in an intimate ceremony in Las Vegas in 2020, having reportedly met on the celebrity dating app Raya sometime in 2019.

However, just over five years later, the duo are rumored to have ended their relationship, with "multiple sources" telling People magazine that they have officially separated.

"Her marriage has been crumbling, and they have split," an unnamed insider told the outlet. Harbour and Allen have yet to comment or confirm the status of their marriage. Realtor.com has contacted their spokespersons for comment.

For several years, the pair appeared to be the picture of wedded bliss, settling down with Allen's two children, Ethel and Marnie, in a Brooklyn townhouse that the duo completely transformed into a "weird and wonderful" paradise filled with eccentric decor.

In 2023, the couple showed off their remarkable abode in a shoot with Architectural Digest, which joked that the pair had created a "mad, mad, mad, mad world" inside their townhouse.

At the time, Harbour-who is best known for his role as Jim Hopper in the hit Netflix (NFLX) series "Stranger Things"-credited Allen for being a driving force behind the colorful and eccentric wonderland.

"Lily is someone who lives with color in a deeper way than most. Her taste is bold, silly, fun, eccentric. It's exciting," he told AD.

Don't miss: What's worth streaming on Netflix, Max, Hulu and more in February 2025 - and which subscriptions to pause or stop

The result was a far cry from the dilapidated state the Carroll Gardens brownstone had been in when Harbour and Allen purchased it.

"The façade was badly deteriorated, and the interior was ... well, let's say it was very lived-in," according to their architect, Ben Bischoff.

It was also a big move away from the midcentury modern aesthetic that Harbour enjoyed in his first home-a one-bedroom loft inside a former wagon factory in New York's trendy NoHo neighborhood.

In that home, Harbour's bedroom was filled with natural light courtesy of the enormous windows and sky-high ceilings.

Yet, in the home that he and Allen built together, the pink primary suite was windowless, creating the impression of a cozy cave in stark contrast with his former dwelling.

While offering AD a glimpse inside their home, Allen described the room as a "bed womb."

More from Realtor.com:$10 Million Houston Mansion With an Enormous 50-Car Garage Finally Drives a Sale-After More Than a Year on the Market

Elsewhere in the home, light fills the space, including in the carpeted primary bathroom, which was outfitted with an enormous tub and a fireplace. The bathroom also doubled as a sitting room, with the shower and toilet moved to a separate area to allow lounging space in the room.

Many of the rooms in the home appeared to have sport themes. The primary bathroom was bedecked in florals, from the carpet and curtains to the wallpaper and artwork. The living room had a tropical garden aesthetic, with bright green furniture and vibrant floral decor.

It's thought that Harbour and Allen purchased the property through an LLC, before embarking on their very extensive renovation.

It remains to be seen whether one of them will choose to remain in the home in the event of a separation. Allen, who hails from the U.K., admitted last year that she was desperate to reclaim a property she sold there in 2016.

More from Realtor.com: Boomers Are Spending Big Bucks on Home Renovations So They Don't Have To Move

The "Smile" singer was forced to sell a sprawling $5.2 million Cotswolds property to pay a tax bill after she was sued by a former manager. That decision was "soul-destroying," she said in a March 2024 episode of her podcast, "Miss Me?"

"I had a beautiful house, which was the house of my dreams, in the countryside," she shared. "I did it up so nice, and it was like my perfect life project. I was very proud of it. It was the place where I was going to raise my children.

Selling it "was absolutely soul-destroying, and a real lesson in life. You can think that you have everything all sorted out, and you just absolutely don't."

More from Realtor.com:See Where Insurance Premiums Are Set To Rise-Including One Coastal City Where They Could Go Up by More Than 300%

While Allen had to walk away from what she thought would be her forever home, she admitted that she hadn't given up the dream altogether-noting that she would "check the housing market" every single day to see "if that house [had] come back on sale."

Allen did invest in another property in the U.K. just months before her alleged split from Harbour was made public, with the Daily Mail reporting that she purchased a home in Notting Hill, near where she grew up.

"She's a West London girl and is loving being back," a source told the publication in November 2024. "Her new place is just a 10-minute walk from her mom's home, and they are very close."

More from Realtor.com: Top 5 States with the Most Expensive Property Taxes

It appears that Harbour may have also held on to his New York City apartment, even after moving in with Allen-with an Instagram post shared by the singer in February 2024 showing her lounging in the living room of her husband's former abode.

This story originally ran on Realtor.com.

This content was created by MarketWatch, which is operated by Dow Jones & Co. MarketWatch is published independently from Dow Jones Newswires and The Wall Street Journal.

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

02-10-25 0504ET

Copyright (c) 2025 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

[morningstar](https://www.morningstar.com/news/marketwatch/2025021027/what-happens-to-the-floral-townhome-of-singer-lily-allen-and-stranger-things-actor-david-harbour-if-they-split)
