---
title: "BP Touts 'New Beginning,' Fundamental Change in -2-"
date: "2025-02-12 01:01:07"
summary: "1103 ET - The most-active live cattle contract on the CME is down 1.3% to $1.955 a pound, the lowest cattle has traded since January 8. The contract is off roughly 6% since a record high of $2.07 a pound in late January. The cattle market needed a breather from..."
categories:
  - "morningstar"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "morningstar"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

1103 ET - The most-active live cattle contract on the CME is down 1.3% to $1.955 a pound, the lowest cattle has traded since January 8. The contract is off roughly 6% since a record high of $2.07 a pound in late January. The cattle market needed a breather from its run-up spanning back to last September, says AgResource in a note. "The market needed a correction," the firm says. Slaughter data is painting a mixed picture for cattle futures, where slaughters are down but average cattle weights are higher. Lean hogs are up 0.7%. (kirk.maltais@wsj.com)

--

U.S. Natural Gas Futures Extend Gains on Lasting Cold -- Market Talk

0946 ET - Forecasts for cold weather over the next 10 days, including a winter storm into the Midwest and Northeast, are giving natural gas futures an additional lift. "Possible well freeze-offs in the Appalachian northeast are keeping the bullish trend alive," BOK Financial's Dennis Kissler says. "Much colder temperatures this winter versus a year ago and rising LNG demand is making a statement." Kissler also notes European gas prices at 2-year highs given faster-than-expected depletion of storage. The Nymex front month is up 2.9% at $3.543/mmBtu. (anthony.harrup@wsj.com)

--

Escalation After Metal Tariffs Expected, Says ING -- Market Talk

0932 ET - President Trump's reintroduced Section 232 steel and aluminum tariffs, which cover all "melted and poured" imports of those metals from anywhere in the world, are expected to be met with retaliation from major metal producers like the EU, says ING Economics in a note. "Retaliation is on, and it's going to get nasty," says the firm, adding that when Trump issued metal tariffs during his first term, it didn't help stop the trend of dropping steel and aluminum production within U.S. borders. Primary aluminum, in particular, has been decimated in the U.S. over the past two decades, with now only four smelters left producing roughly 680,000 metric tons of aluminum last year. By comparison, China produced 43 million tons, says ING, citing data from Harbor Intelligence. (kirk.maltais@wsj.com)

--

Oil Futures Extend Gains to Third Session -- Market Talk

0916 ET - Crude futures are rising for a third consecutive session, supported by reports of lower Russian production and tensions between Israel and Hamas over their cease-fire agreement. The implications of trade tariffs remain an issue with the U.S. imposing 25% duties on all steel and aluminum imports. "The focus on reduced production rates in Russia, and a more optimistic tone in U.S. and other developed market indices helped crude break the downtrend," Pepperstone's Chris Weston says in a note. A mix of short covering and organic buying suggests crude had reached a near-term low, he adds. Benchmarks WTI rises 1.4% to $73.34 a barrel and Brent is up 1.5% at $77.01 a barrel. (anthony.harrup@wsj.com)

--

Gold Futures Steady After Fresh Record on U.S. Tariff Fears -- Market Talk

1126 GMT - Gold futures are broadly flat after setting a record earlier in the session. Futures are down 0.1% at $2,932.30 a troy ounce, having risen as high as $2,968.50 in Asian overnight trading. Gold's fresh high reflects fears over the damage from U.S. tariffs on trade--and threats of retaliation--combined with rising concerns of inflation and persistent geopolitical uncertainty, ActivTrades' Ricardo Evangelista says in a note. A global trade war could cause widespread economic damage, boosting bullion's safe-haven appeal, Evangelista writes. At the same time, U.S. protectionism is set to raise imported goods prices, driving up inflation and further enhancing gold's appeal as a hedge against monetary devaluation, Evangelista says. Given this backdrop and with several unresolved epicenters of geopolitical instability, gold's outlook remains bullish with further price gains possible, he adds. (joseph.hoppe@wsj.com)

--

BP Seeks to Boost Investor Confidence -- Market Talk

1048 GMT - BP recognizes that it has work to do to improve investor confidence, Quilter Cheviot's Maurizio Carulli writes. The company is reviewing its capital expenditure and share buyback policy. The British oil and gas company's poor share price performance in 2024 has dragged on shareholder confidence, the analyst adds. As returns come into focus, BP's guidance for divestments worth $3 billion in 2025 can be viewed as a positive, he adds. Shares trade up 0.2% to 466 pence. (adam.whittaker@wsj.com)

--

Trade Turmoil Could Lead OPEC+ to Extend Output Cuts Again -- Market Talk

1035 GMT - U.S. President Trump's trade turmoil could push OPEC and its allies to extend existing production cuts once again, according to Morgan Stanley. Tariffs and counter tariffs have the potential to hit oil-intensive sectors of the economy the hardest, hurting global growth and demand for crude. "Adding supply into a period of rising trade tensions is not a compelling prospect, and we suspect that OPEC+ will avoid this," analysts at the U.S. bank say. MS says lower OPEC+ output would lead to a balanced market in the second quarter, despite modest inventory builds in the coming months. The bank trimmed its first-quarter forecasts for Brent crude to $75 a barrel from $77.5 a barrel previously. The international oil benchmark is seen at $75 a barrel in the second quarter and at $72.5 a barrel in the second half of the year. (giulia.petroni@wsj.com)

--

Europe's Gas Edges Lower After Monday's Rally -- Market Talk

0956 GMT - European natural-gas prices edge lower in early trade following the previous session's rally. The benchmark Dutch TTF contract is down 1.2% to 57.32 euros a megawatt hour after breaking above 58 euros, the highest level in two years. Colder temperatures and low wind speeds have boosted gas demand in recent weeks, contributing to a sharp decline in inventories. "EU gas inventory utilization is currently at 48.5%, and we might drop as low as low-30s by the end of the winter," analysts at DNB Markets say. Prices are also driven by a slowdown in global LNG supply growth over the past three months, according to the analysts. However, as gas prices rise, some emerging markets in Asia are experiencing lower demand, leaving more LNG available for Europe. (giulia.petroni@wsj.com)

--

BP's Quarterly Profit Hits Four-Year Low -- Market Talk

0937 GMT - BP's quarterly profit fell to a four-year low as seasonal weakness, refining margins and maintenance worked dragged on its results, Derren Nathan, head of equity research at Hargreaves Lansdown, writes. Much of this was well trailed in BP's performance update so investors shouldn't be too surprised, he adds. As the British energy giant updates on its strategy later this month, activist investor Elliott Investment Management will be examining the returns profile on BP's assets, he adds. BP's shares trade up 0.3% at 46.64 pounds and are up nearly 20% over the year to date. (adam.whittaker@wsj.com)

--

Base Metal Prices Slip; Tariffs to Affect Only U.S. Prices, Goldman Sachs Says -- Market Talk

0932 GMT - Base metal prices fall, with LME three-month copper down 0.9% at $9,367 a metric ton and LME three-month aluminum down 0.4% at $2,649.50 a ton. Metal prices slip after gaining in Monday's session, with copper and aluminum both up on-week. President Trump proposed over the weekend to raise U.S. aluminum import tariffs to 25% from 10% and remove all exemptions, Goldman Sachs analysts say in a note. Assuming no exemptions, aluminum and steel tariffs will largely be passed through to U.S. prices only, Goldman writes. Goldman expects the U.S. Midwest aluminum premium to more than double to 50 cents a pound. Separately, markets are pricing in over a 90% probability of a 10% copper import duty by March, though Goldman Sachs retains a baseline estimate of a 70% chance of a 10% tariff by the end of 2025. (joseph.hoppe@wsj.com)

--

Gold Futures Rise to Near Record High as Tariff Threats Spook Markets -- Market Talk

0918 GMT - Gold futures rise after setting a fresh record earlier in the session. Futures are up 0.1% at $2,937.10 a troy ounce, having risen as high as $2,069 in Asian overnight trading. Gold and the U.S. dollar both extended gains, fuelled by fresh tariff threats from President Trump, Swissquote Bank's Ipek Ozkardeskaya says in a note. Trump said on the weekend that he will implement 25% tariffs on steel and aluminum, driving up safe-haven demand for assets like gold. China, Turkey, India and Eastern European nations among others are continuing to buy gold to build their reserves of assets that don't carry Trump or U.S. risks, Ozkardeskaya says. While the tight trade and geopolitical environment could get tenser and uglier very quickly, gold remains the ultimate Trump hedge, and makes $3,000 an ounce easily achievable, she adds. (joseph.hoppe@wsj.com)

--

Oil Extends Gains Despite U.S. Tariff Concerns -- Market Talk

0908 GMT - Oil prices extend gains from the previous trading session despite fears that President Trump's trade tariffs might hurt global growth. Brent crude and WTI are both up 1% to $76.67 and $73.07 a barrel, respectively, boosted by signs of tighter supplies and rising geopolitical tensions. According to a Bloomberg report, Russian oil production slipped further below the country's OPEC+ quota in January, easing concerns over an oversupplied market even if the Kremlin still has to make up for past overproduction. Meanwhile, Russia and Ukraine continue to exchange attacks targeting energy infrastructure. Traders now await Fed Chair Jerome Powell's testimony before Congress for cues on future rate policy, as higher rates could slow oil-demand growth. (giulia.petroni@wsj.com)

--

Iron Ore Gains; China Demand Likely to Improve -- Market Talk

(MORE TO FOLLOW) Dow Jones Newswires

February 11, 2025 11:48 ET (16:48 GMT)

Copyright (c) 2025 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

[morningstar](https://www.morningstar.com/news/dow-jones/202502117565/bp-touts-new-beginning-fundamental-change-in-2)
