---
title: "U.K. Ends Year With Weak Growth as Tariffs Threaten New Blow to Limping Economy — 2nd Update"
date: "2025-02-13 16:30:52"
summary: "By Joshua Kirby The U.K. economy grew only slightly at the end of last year as the country braces for the impact of higher U.S. tariffs on global demand for its exports. Gross domestic product rose 0.1% between October and December from the previous three-month period, or 0.4% on an..."
categories:
  - "morningstar"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "morningstar"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Joshua Kirby

The U.K. economy grew only slightly at the end of last year as the country braces for the impact of higher U.S. tariffs on global demand for its exports.

Gross domestic product rose 0.1% between October and December from the previous three-month period, or 0.4% on an annualized basis, the U.K. statistics authority said Thursday. That was a little better than expectations for a flat level of output set out by economists in a poll compiled by The Wall Street Journal. Strong activity in the services sector, including in pubs and bars that filled with festive drinkers, boosted growth in December, helping the economy avoid stagnation or worse over the quarter as a whole.

Still, Britain's economy grew just 0.9% in 2024 as a whole, compared with 2.8% in the U.S. The faltering end to the year was matched by its neighbors, with the 20 eurozone nations stagnating in the final quarter.

The U.K.'s center-left Labour government, which came to power in the summer, has made economic growth its priority as a means of funding ambitious spending plans aimed at boosting defense capabilities and repairing creaking public services, including the healthcare system.

But a planned increase in taxes on employers has hurt business confidence, stifling investment and employment growth, according to private-sector surveys. And despite rising real incomes as inflation comes down from recent years' peaks and wage growth remains strong, consumer spending hasn't enjoyed the rapid recovery some economists expected. Retail sales slumped over the fourth quarter, the most important time of the year for shopping.

A pickup in growth in the year "will require consumers to abandon some of their recent caution," said Ben Jones, an economist at the Confederation of British Industry. "And it assumes that businesses won't see their headroom for investment squeezed any further."

With growth proving elusive, the government could struggle to find the money it needs without hiking taxes or breaking its own rules on borrowing. And it is facing a fresh threat from potential tariffs on goods imported into the U.S., where President Trump has blown hot and cold on whether London might win itself an exemption from import duties. Trump this week said he would impose heavy tariffs on steel imports, including from the U.K, beginning next month.

"The imposition of U.S. tariffs on U.K. steel would be a devastating blow to our industry," Gareth Stace, head of lobby group UK Steel, said. The group estimates a hit of some 400 million pounds ($497.8 million) from tariffs on exports to its second-largest market. Exports of British steel to the U.S. have yet to fully recover from the tariffs Trump imposed in his first term, and which were partially lifted under the Biden administration.

Steel makes up only around 1% of Britain's manufacturing output. But the government sees it as key both to growth and to national security, given its importance to supplying arms manufacture.

Treasury chief Rachel Reeves said this week she was hopeful a "deal could be done" with Washington on steel. But the British Chambers of Commerce warned that a survey of manufacturing firms showed nearly two thirds expect an impact from any tariffs applied to their exports to the U.S. A little under a third expect a significant impact, the business group said.

Overall, the U.K. doesn't run a surplus in its goods trade with the U.S., and its successful services exports--notably in financial services--aren't at any major risk from Trump's protectionist trade policy.

But a worsening trade environment at the global level still presents a risk to the country's hoped-for acceleration this year. Tariffs could drive down net exports and overall growth, and at the same time keep inflation higher and for longer above the Bank of England's 2% target, according to a new report from think tank the National Institute of Economic and Social Research. That brings into sharper focus the specter of an unwelcome combination of rapid price rises and lackluster economic expansion.

The BOE last week cut its forecasts for growth this year to 0.75% from 1.5%. The central bank at the same time cut its key interest rate for a third time in a half year and the dimmer outlook for growth has fueled expectations for a more rapid pace of cuts ahead. The BOE estimated that the economy shrank slightly in the final months of last year, and the surprise return to growth is likely to reinforce its "careful and gradual" approach to further cuts in its key interest rate.

"Further gradual interest-rate cuts are still likely," Abrdn economist Luke Bartholomew said.

The government has meanwhile continued to insist it can bring about growth in the economy.

"This is a proudly pro-business government," Treasury chief Reeves said during a visit to the World Economic Forum in Davos last month.

She pointed to pension changes that she said will unlock funding to young companies. The government's other growth-boosting plans include making it easier to build housing, allowing expansion of London's busiest airport, and working to boost investment in infrastructure like water and rail. Prime Minister Keir Starmer has also vowed that Britain can be a world-leader in its use of artificial intelligence.

But homegrown headwinds continue to swirl. Reeves's planned tax rises on employers has knocked business confidence and will mean a pick-up in joblessness, economist Paul Dales at consultants Capital Economics said this week.

That could be exacerbated if Reeves is forced to take further fiscal measures to avoid breaking her borrowing rules, leaving the British economy facing growth of just 0.5% this year, Dales told investors in a note.

"The drag on activity from the tightening in fiscal policy…is taking place sooner and/or is bigger than we thought," he said.

Write to Joshua Kirby at joshua.kirby@wsj.com; @joshualeokirby

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

February 13, 2025 03:07 ET (08:07 GMT)

Copyright (c) 2025 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

[morningstar](https://www.morningstar.com/news/dow-jones/202502133987/uk-ends-year-with-weak-growth-as-tariffs-threaten-new-blow-to-limping-economy-2nd-update)
