---
title: "Texas stock-exchange shootout looms as equities markets stake Lone Star claims"
date: "2025-02-13 01:01:02"
summary: "By Steve Gelsi ICE's NYSE Texas announces plans to open stock exchange, even as BlackRock- and Citadel-backed Texas Stock Exchange ramps up Among running stock exchanges, one of the biggest rivalries on Wall Street has been whether a company chooses to list its stock on the New York Stock Exchange..."
categories:
  - "morningstar"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "morningstar"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Steve Gelsi

ICE's NYSE Texas announces plans to open stock exchange, even as BlackRock- and Citadel-backed Texas Stock Exchange ramps up

Among running stock exchanges, one of the biggest rivalries on Wall Street has been whether a company chooses to list its stock on the New York Stock Exchange or the Nasdaq.

Now Texas is shaping up to be the next stock-trading battleground as two rival exchanges move to set up shop in the Lone Star State.

The New York Stock Exchange, which has been owned by Intercontinental Exchange Inc. (ICE) since 2013, said Wednesday it's planning to launch NYSE Texas.

Meanwhile, the Texas Stock Exchange, TXSE Group, said on Jan. 31 that it plans to start trading equities in 2026 after getting $161 million backing from BlackRock Inc. (BLK), Citadel, Charles Schwab Corp. (SCHW), Dell Family Office and others.

An NYSE spokesperson declined to comment on the potential competition with TXSE Group.

MarketWatch also reached out to TXSE Group for comment.

While the NYSE announcement didn't include a timetable, it said it would launch an equities exchange in Dallas by reincorporating NYSE Chicago and renaming it NYSE Texas.

The NYSE said it's making the move because Texas already has the largest number of listings on the NYSE with a combined $3.7 trillion in market cap.

"With this launch, NYSE Texas will deliver a listing exchange to companies incorporated both in Texas and around the world that are attracted to Texas's growing population, strong economy and business-friendly regulatory agenda," the NYSE said.

After initially announcing its plans in June, the TXSE Group said last month it was the only fully integrated exchange in the past 20 years to file for approval from the Securities and Exchange Commission.

Texas has been a haven for the world's richest man, Elon Musk, who moved the legal corporate headquarters of Tesla Inc. (TSLA) to the state after building its physical headquarters in Austin.

Musk asked shareholders last year to approve the move, which helped him win $56 billion in pay after a Delaware judge blocked his compensation package.

Musk's SpaceX business also operates out of Texas, although its official headquarters is in Hawthorne, Calif.

-Steve Gelsi

This content was created by MarketWatch, which is operated by Dow Jones & Co. MarketWatch is published independently from Dow Jones Newswires and The Wall Street Journal.

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

02-12-25 1155ET

Copyright (c) 2025 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

[morningstar](https://www.morningstar.com/news/marketwatch/20250212284/texas-stock-exchange-shootout-looms-as-equities-markets-stake-lone-star-claims)
