---
title: "'It is hard to watch them buy a Mercedes': My father left his $600K estate to my stepmother. Her family put the assets in a trust. Is my inheritance lost?"
date: "2025-02-10 18:25:52"
summary: "By Quentin Fottrell 'My stepmother's family refused to follow the terms of the will, which left their joint estate to my sister and me' Dear Quentin, My father passed away some years ago so everything went to my stepmother. My stepmother said she would follow my father's wishes and leave..."
categories:
  - "morningstar"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "morningstar"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Quentin Fottrell

'My stepmother's family refused to follow the terms of the will, which left their joint estate to my sister and me'

Dear Quentin,

My father passed away some years ago so everything went to my stepmother. My stepmother said she would follow my father's wishes and leave the rest to my sister and me in her will. However, when she was in a nursing home, her sister made her sign papers to put everything in a trust. My stepmother's sister passed away shortly thereafter, so that did not happen.

My sister was the executor of my stepmother's will. My stepmother's family refused to follow the terms of the will, which left their joint estate to my sister and me. Her family said that they have the rights to everything from the trust. My sister asked if we could just have some of the money from the sale of the house, given that it was bought with my father's money.

My stepmother's family claims they cannot find the original will. The lawyer who wrote the will does have a copy and his assistant actually witnessed the signing. I still carry the last name of my stepmother even though I am married. We believe the estate is worth $400,000. The sale of the house would bring another $200,000.

'My stepmother's family claims they cannot find the original will.'

Interestingly, there is a car in the middle of this mess. Our stepmother's niece wants us to sign over the car. It is my understanding that we cannot sign over the title as the will was not probated. The DMV stated that my sister and I would both have to sign over the car. Not sure if the DMV understood the complexity of the situation.

It is my understanding that we can do nothing because we are her stepdaughters - not her actual daughters. We have been told we can take them to court but it would be costly. It is hard to watch them buy a Mercedes and many other extravagant things. Is there any way we can do anything that might work to get something? We have given up hope.

The Stepdaughter

Related: My stepdaughter is executor to her late father's will, and believes she's now on the deed to my home. Is that possible?

Dear Stepdaughter,

Wills, inheritances, relatives, trusts and automobiles.

That adds up to a lot of subterfuge, at worst, and interference, at best. You are correct that stepchildren are not legal heirs. Too many people with blended families leave their estate in the hands of their current spouse, expecting them to distribute their assets. That does not always happen. The remaining spouse gets married again, changes their mind or falls under the influence of family members. Your stepmother's family appeared at a vulnerable time for her, or perhaps she created this trust willingly, knowing it effectively rendered their will meaningless.

I'm confused about the existence of the will, whether there was more than one copy and, if so, what happened to it. But it may be a moot point, much like the automobile. Your stepmother's family set up a trust - with or without her expressed support - in order to remove as many assets as possible from probate, assuming a will existed. You are, in essence, chasing a dragon by trying to find this will. From your letter, the bulk of your stepmother's assets were transferred to this trust. And I assume her next of kin, her blood relations, were beneficiaries of that trust.

There is a statute of limitations for contesting trusts.

There is a statute of limitations for contesting trusts, which varies by state. For example, if a breach of fiduciary duty is discovered then you have up to four years to file a claim in the state of California, according to Hinojosa & Forer, a law firm based in Los Angeles. "This four-year period starts from the day that the breach is discovered or from the day that you should have reasonably discovered the breach," it says. But even if the creation of this trust was successfully challenged, without a will, it's hard to see how you could benefit as her stepchildren.

Wills are also subject to state laws. In New York, the Surrogate Court requires that the original will is presented to the court for the purposes of probate, according to Meyer & Spencer, a New York-based law firm. "If the original will is lost or destroyed, New York is amenable to a copy of the will if two witnesses can testify to the original being in existence at one time," it says. "The statute states that a lost or destroyed will may be admitted to probate only if it is well established that the will was not revoked and the execution of the will is proved in the manner required for the probate of an existing will."

Here's the way your father should have planned his estate: Set up a revocable trust that becomes irrevocable upon his death, providing an income for your stepmother during her lifetime and giving her a "life estate" - assuming he purchased the family home prior to their marriage - that she could live in and maintain during her lifetime, and which would then pass to you and your sister upon her death. The terms of the trust would either distribute a lump sum 50/50 to you and your sister or continue with an income for your and/or your children.

The chain of events, as you describe them, has unfortunately left you out in the cold.

Related: 'Don't be naïve': I have a wake-up call for divorcing women - you've been giving up too much for too long. Am I wrong?

You can email The Moneyist with any financial and ethical questions at qfottrell@marketwatch.com, and follow Quentin Fottrell on X, the platform formerly known as Twitter.

The Moneyist regrets he cannot reply to questions individually.

More columns from Quentin Fottrell:

'I'm struggling with grief and loss': I inherited seven figures after my parents died young. Why do I feel guilty?

I'm 54 and have terminal cancer. I have a wife, 47, and 8-year-old child. How do I split my $1.2 million retirement and life insurance between them?

'She's the queen of CDs': My mother-in-law, 83, opened 12 CDs at different financial institutions. Should I intervene?

Check out The Moneyist's private Facebook group, where members help answer life's thorniest money issues. Post your questions, or weigh in on the latest Moneyist columns.

By emailing your questions to The Moneyist or posting your dilemmas on The Moneyist Facebook group, you agree to have them published anonymously on MarketWatch.

By submitting your story to Dow Jones & Co., the publisher of MarketWatch, you understand and agree that we may use your story, or versions of it, in all media and platforms, including via third parties.

-Quentin Fottrell

This content was created by MarketWatch, which is operated by Dow Jones & Co. MarketWatch is published independently from Dow Jones Newswires and The Wall Street Journal.

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

02-10-25 0517ET

Copyright (c) 2025 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

[morningstar](https://www.morningstar.com/news/marketwatch/2025021029/it-is-hard-to-watch-them-buy-a-mercedes-my-father-left-his-600k-estate-to-my-stepmother-her-family-put-the-assets-in-a-trust-is-my-inheritance-lost)
