---
title: "Bristol Myers Squibb Sees Positive Results for Breyanzi in Lymphoma Trials"
date: "2025-02-10 21:31:00"
summary: "By Adriano Marchese Bristol Myers Squibb said it has received positive results for its latest lymphoma treatment trials, the fifth type of cancer the drug has been shown to treat. The biopharmaceutical company said Monday that the second phase of its Transcend FL trial for the drug Breyanzi met its..."
categories:
  - "morningstar"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "morningstar"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Adriano Marchese

Bristol Myers Squibb said it has received positive results for its latest lymphoma treatment trials, the fifth type of cancer the drug has been shown to treat.

The biopharmaceutical company said Monday that the second phase of its Transcend FL trial for the drug Breyanzi met its primary endpoint. The treatment aims to treat patients with relapsed or refractory indolent B-cell non-Hodgkin lymphoma.

Indolent lymphomas are a rare type of lymphoma that tend to grow more slowly and have fewer signs and symptoms when first diagnosed.

Results showed Breyanzi, also known as lisocabtagene maraleucel, showed a statistically significant and clinically meaningful overall response rate in its patients.

According to the trial results, Breyanzi showed its ability to continue to provide a durable response and a consistent safety profile with no new safety signals.

The study also met the key secondary endpoint of complete response rate.

Bristol Myers Squibb said this study marks the fifth cancer type in which Breyanzi has demonstrated a clinically meaningful benefit.

Write to Adriano Marchese at adriano.marchese@wsj.com

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

February 10, 2025 08:19 ET (13:19 GMT)

Copyright (c) 2025 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

[morningstar](https://www.morningstar.com/news/dow-jones/202502105117/bristol-myers-squibb-sees-positive-results-for-breyanzi-in-lymphoma-trials)
