---
title: "Stock futures reverse early losses as Trump to announce 25% tariffs on steel, aluminum imports"
date: "2025-02-10 09:30:56"
summary: "By Mike Murphy Trump also claims irregularities regarding U.S. Treasury debt U.S. stock futures reversed early losses Sunday after President Donald Trump said he will announce 25% tariffs against all steel and aluminum imports into the U.S. on Monday. He added that he plans to announce a series of reciprocal..."
categories:
  - "morningstar"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "morningstar"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Mike Murphy

Trump also claims irregularities regarding U.S. Treasury debt

U.S. stock futures reversed early losses Sunday after President Donald Trump said he will announce 25% tariffs against all steel and aluminum imports into the U.S. on Monday.

He added that he plans to announce a series of reciprocal tariffs on Tuesday or Wednesday. Trump said on Friday that reciprocal tariffs were forthcoming - potentially against imports from China, Japan, the European Union and Taiwan, among other countries that already impose tariffs against American goods.

"If they are charging us 130% and we're charging them nothing, it's not going to stay that way," Trump told reporters aboard Air Force One on Sunday.

Read more: Trump says he'll roll out reciprocal tariffs this week. Here are his possible targets.

Trump also suggested Sunday that Elon Musk's efficiency team has found irregularities at the U.S. Treasury and that the U.S. may not be obligated to pay certain debt payments due to fraud.

"There could be a problem - you've been reading about that, with Treasuries and that could be an interesting problem," Trump told reporters. "It could be that a lot of those things don't count. In other words, that some of that stuff that we're finding is very fraudulent, therefore maybe we have less debt than we thought." He did not provide details or elaborate on the possible repercussions of that.

Previously: The bond market just sent a message about Trump's second term. Stock investors should listen.

After initially falling about 100 points late Sunday, Dow Jones Industrial Average futures (YM00) were last up about 100 points, or 0.2%. S&P 500 futures (ES00) also reversed losses and gained 0.3% while Nasdaq-100 futures (NQ00) rose 0.4%. The 10-Year U.S. Treasury Note Continuous Contract (TY00) was little changed.

Trump also did not say when the new tariffs will take effect. He has already imposed additional 10% tariffs against goods made in China, and paused the imposition of 25% tariffs against Canada and Mexico for a month.

More: On earnings calls, executives are trying to figure out Trump's tariffs

Critics warn that tariffs could result in higher prices for American consumers, at a time when inflation has remained stubbornly high for years. Supporters of tariffs claim they will help reduce dependence on foreign imports and help revive American industry.

The new tariffs may have already been priced in. Stocks took a tumble on Friday as investors considered the effects of additional tariffs and possible higher inflation, with the Dow Jones Industrial Average DJIA losing 444 points, or 1%, while the S&P 500 SPX also fell 1% and the Nasdaq Composite COMP slid 1.4%.

Also: Vance and Musk question courts' authority as Trump's agenda faces legal pushback

-Mike Murphy

This content was created by MarketWatch, which is operated by Dow Jones & Co. MarketWatch is published independently from Dow Jones Newswires and The Wall Street Journal.

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

02-09-25 2015ET

Copyright (c) 2025 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

[morningstar](https://www.morningstar.com/news/marketwatch/20250209205/stock-futures-reverse-early-losses-as-trump-to-announce-25-tariffs-on-steel-aluminum-imports)
