---
title: "Singapore 'Election' Budget to Take Aim at Rising Costs, Slowing Growth"
date: "2025-02-13 14:00:57"
summary: "By Amanda Lee Singapore announces its next budget at a pivotal time for the trade-reliant economy. At home, an election is around the corner, and abroad, geopolitical tensions are brewing. Against that backdrop, analysts expect Budget 2025 to focus on lowering costs for households and businesses, while making Singapore more..."
categories:
  - "morningstar"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "morningstar"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Amanda Lee

Singapore announces its next budget at a pivotal time for the trade-reliant economy. At home, an election is around the corner, and abroad, geopolitical tensions are brewing. Against that backdrop, analysts expect Budget 2025 to focus on lowering costs for households and businesses, while making Singapore more competitive on the global stage. The budget, the current administration's last before the city-state heads to polls, is due Tuesday. Here's what to watch:

ECONOMY: Singapore's economy finished 2024 on a high, but external headwinds--fueled by U.S.-instigated trade disputes--suggest that a key aim of the budget will be shoring up resilience.

To boost the city-state's competitiveness, RHB Bank expects the budget to prioritize research-and-development funding in areas like artificial intelligence. Emphasizing sustainability-related R&D will help firms pivot toward green tech, offering a competitive advantage as global trade pressures rise, RHB's Barnabas Gan said in a report.

DBS economist Chua Han Teng expects focus to be on "sharpening economic competitiveness" to navigate a more uncertain external landscape, as well as tighter domestic constraints.

Longer-term measures like programs to improve workers' skills could also feature, Maybank analysts said.

More is also expected on the Singapore-Malaysia economic zone that aims to draw billions in investment. This could include funding support to help Singaporean companies tap opportunities in the Johor-Singapore SEZ, UOB's Jester Koh said in a note.

COOLING COSTS: A major budgetary theme is almost certain to be living and business costs, as higher prices squeeze families and companies alike.

Noting the inflationary risks posed by geopolitical tensions, Nomura economists expect targeted measures to ease cost pressures, especially for more vulnerable businesses and households.

Maybank's Chua Hak Bin and Brian Lee Shun Rong expect more cash and voucher handouts, "with cost-of-living pains top of mind for voters." More subsidies for bigger ticket items like childcare, plus personal income tax rebates, could also be tabled, they added.

Tax relief will also be on companies' wish list.

Rebates for corporate taxes, and taxes on commercial and industrial properties are possibilities, Maybank said. Measures to attract talent and address foreign manpower issues are also possible.

Meaningful efforts to lower business costs would help cushion against slowing global economic and trade growth, said Citi analyst Wei Zheng Kit in a note.

FISCAL POSITION: Consensus views are for an expansionary budget, with Singapore's strong balance-sheet position offering room to ramp up spending without sacrificing fiscal prudence.

After years of surpluses, most analysts expect the budget to pencil in a deficit for fiscal 2025, with estimates ranging from 0.3% to 0.8% of gross domestic product.

UOB's Koh estimates a stronger-than-budgeted surplus in fiscal 2024 of S$5.0 billion, or 0.7% of GDP.

"External uncertainties could also prompt a counter-cyclical fiscal stance," said Chua at DBS.

Fiscal 2025 operating revenue could increase marginally on a likely minimal expansion in corporate and personal-income taxes as the economy slows, RHB's Gan said.

EQUITIES: As officials look to inject dynamism into Singapore's stock market, the budget could aim to revive a sluggish IPO market by making companies' route to market easier.

Noting that Singapore housed just four initial public offerings in 2024, Maybank analysts see scope for measures like streamlined regulations to encourage listings. The use of seed funds to catalyze equity investments from commercial capital are also on the radar, Maybank's Lee said in an email.

Lennon Lee, PwC Singapore's tax leader, said the government could consider enhance existing incentives to ease listing cost burdens.

Financial incentives or tax rebates could help position Singapore as a premier destination for high-quality listings, KPMG and the Singapore Institute of Directors said in a report.

Write to Amanda Lee at amanda.lee@wsj.com and Fabiana Negrin Ochoa at fabiana.negrinochoa@wsj.com

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

February 13, 2025 00:42 ET (05:42 GMT)

Copyright (c) 2025 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

[morningstar](https://www.morningstar.com/news/dow-jones/20250213261/singapore-election-budget-to-take-aim-at-rising-costs-slowing-growth)
