---
title: "Bank of Canada Cut Rates to Fuel Growth, Shield Economy From Possible Trade Fallout, Minutes Say"
date: "2025-02-13 03:00:55"
summary: "By Paul Vieira OTTAWA--A need to fuel faster growth and shield the economy from U.S. trade-policy uncertainty led senior Bank of Canada officials to agree on a quarter-point rate cut last month, according to minutes summarizing central bank deliberations. Lower interest rates had helped boost both consumer demand and housing..."
categories:
  - "morningstar"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "morningstar"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Paul Vieira

OTTAWA--A need to fuel faster growth and shield the economy from U.S. trade-policy uncertainty led senior Bank of Canada officials to agree on a quarter-point rate cut last month, according to minutes summarizing central bank deliberations.

Lower interest rates had helped boost both consumer demand and housing activity, according to the minutes. However, a good chunk of the deliberations focused on the tariff threats the Canadian economy faced from the Trump administration, most notably a 25% levy on all nonenergy exports and a 10% levy on U.S.-bound energy products.

Those tariffs were set for implementation on Feb. 4, but President Trump granted Canada and Mexico a reprieve on the 25% tariff until early March, pending progress the two countries make on fortifying border security and deterring fentanyl trafficking.

"Members acknowledged that it was impossible to predict what would happen with U.S. trade policy," senior officials said, according to the minutes. The six members of the Bank of Canada's governing council, led by Gov. Tiff Macklem, said the hit to business investment from a protracted trade conflict between the U.S. and Canada "could damage the growth prospects of the Canadian economy."

The minutes indicate that senior policymakers agreed that fiscal policy was better suited to help cushion the damage for affected sectors and workers from trade row. "Monetary policy cannot offset the long-term economic adjustment that permanent tariffs would cause," according to the minutes.

The central bank on Jan. 29 cut for a sixth straight time its policy interest rate, this time by a quarter point to 3%. The Bank of Canada has reduced rates by two percentage points since last June, making it the most aggressive central bank among Group of Seven economies in rolling back rate increases necessary to tame inflation.

The minutes said senior officials were encouraged with data suggesting a solid pickup in economic activity. With inflation around 2% and the economy operating with spare capacity, officials "wanted to see this pick up sustained to take up slack and keep inflation close to 2%," according to the minutes. "Members agreed that a 25-basis-point cut would be helpful to support growth and better balance inflation risks."

Some economists had warned that some measures of underlying, or core, inflation were accelerating, based on recent data, and could warrant a pause from the Bank of Canada. The minutes, though, indicate officials "agreed that underlying inflation looked to be close to 2%," adding that total inflation was forecast to remain at 2% for the foreseeable future.

Write to Paul Vieira at paul.vieira@wsj.com

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

February 12, 2025 13:46 ET (18:46 GMT)

Copyright (c) 2025 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

[morningstar](https://www.morningstar.com/news/dow-jones/2025021211308/bank-of-canada-cut-rates-to-fuel-growth-shield-economy-from-possible-trade-fallout-minutes-say)
