---
title: "Barclays Guides For Growth After Quarterly Beat — Update"
date: "2025-02-13 18:30:55"
summary: "By Elena Vardon Barclays said it expects an increase in profitability this year as it reported fourth-quarter results boosted by its investment bank and its domestic retail division. The British bank on Thursday posted a pretax profit of 1.66 billion pounds ($2.07 billion) for the three months ended Dec. 31,..."
categories:
  - "morningstar"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "morningstar"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Elena Vardon

Barclays said it expects an increase in profitability this year as it reported fourth-quarter results boosted by its investment bank and its domestic retail division.

The British bank on Thursday posted a pretax profit of 1.66 billion pounds ($2.07 billion) for the three months ended Dec. 31, up from 110 million pounds a year prior when it booked hefty restructuring charges, and ahead of a 1.62 billion pound estimate taken from a company-compiled consensus.

The group's revenue came in 24% higher on year at 6.96 billion pounds, beating expectations of 6.705 billion pounds. This was roughly split between fees and commissions and net interest income, the difference between what banks earn on loans and what they pay clients for deposits.

Investment banking, an area where Barclays has a significant presence in the U.S., contributed 2.61 billion pounds to the result as the election of Donald Trump as U.S. president buoyed trading and the bank benefited from a wave of dealmaking and fixed income growth in the quarter.

Barclays UK brought in 2.615 billion pounds, including a gain from the integration of the retail banking business of supermarket chain Tesco, whose acquisition was completed early November.

Looking ahead at 2025, the bank guided for net interest income excluding the investment bank and head office of 12.2 billion pounds, of which 7.4 billion pounds will come from Barclays UK. This is an increase compared with the 11.2 billion pounds it reported for 2024 as it expects the structural hedges it has placed to mitigate the impact of interest-rate cuts by the Bank of England to continue to provide a tailwind.

It also targets an improvement on return on tangible equity--a key measure of profitability--to around 11% this year from 10.5% for 2024.

"Our new guidance for 2025…represents an important next step in the journey towards our 2026 targets including Group RoTE of greater than 12%," Chief Executive C.S. Venkatakrishnan said.

Last February, the executive outlined a three-year plan to lift the company's share price and return 10 billion pounds to shareholders while boosting the size of its U.K. operations and shrinking the share of its capital-consuming investment bank.

Barclays also launched an up to 1 billion-pound share buyback and declared a total dividend of 8.4 pence. Its common equity tier 1 ratio-a measure of balance sheet strength-stood at 13.6% at the end of the year, within its 13% to 14% targeted range.

"Overall a solid set of results, but little new to get excited about either," Citi analysts said in a research note to clients. Jefferies echoed this sentiment. "All we needed today was for everything to behave. And it has," analysts wrote, adding the update showed the bank is delivering on its plan.

Shares dropped around 5% in early European trading as the market reaction was tempered by the stock's steady climb since the start of the year.

"Given the high expectations for some positive surprises leading into the numbers, some profit taking was perhaps inevitable at the opening of trade," Interactive Investor's Richard Hunter said in a market comment.

Some of the share fall could also be attributed to what KBW analysts described as a disappointing outlook, which aligned with consensus.

Write to Elena Vardon at elena.vardon@wsj.com

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

February 13, 2025 05:24 ET (10:24 GMT)

Copyright (c) 2025 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

[morningstar](https://www.morningstar.com/news/dow-jones/202502135101/barclays-guides-for-growth-after-quarterly-beat-update)
