---
title: "Trump has promised reciprocal tariffs. Americans could pay more on imports from these countries."
date: "2025-02-11 10:10:50"
summary: "By Chris Matthews U.S. consumers could pay more for products from Brazil, India and Vietnam President Donald Trump has announced his intention to create a reciprocal-tariff regime that increases taxes on the products Americans buy from countries that impose their own high import taxes. The effects of these new tariffs..."
categories:
  - "morningstar"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "morningstar"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Chris Matthews

U.S. consumers could pay more for products from Brazil, India and Vietnam

President Donald Trump has announced his intention to create a reciprocal-tariff regime that increases taxes on the products Americans buy from countries that impose their own high import taxes.

The effects of these new tariffs on trade with major U.S. partners like Canada and Mexico could be muted, since free-trade agreements with those countries mean that most products currently cross those borders duty-free. (Trump has threatened new 25% tariffs on Canada and Mexico, but the implementation of those levies was pushed back by 30 days last week.)

Products from poorer countries such as China, Vietnam, Brazil and India, however, would likely be taxed at a higher rate in a world of reciprocal tariffs, according to Scott Lincicome, a trade policy expert at the libertarian Cato Institute.

Most wealthy countries have average tariff rates similar to what the U.S. has currently.

For instance, the European Union places a 10% tariff on American-made cars, while the U.S. levies 2.5% for similar vehicles made in the EU. (The U.S. charges a higher 25% duty on light trucks). Despite these higher levies for most automobiles, on a trade-weighted basis, Germany and France charge lower levies overall than the U.S. does. According to World Bank data, Europe's two largest economies charge, on average, 1.95% in tariffs, compared with the 2.72% charged by the United States.

"You could see countries in Europe taking a hit on certain politically sensitive products like [cars]," Lincicome said. "In general, though, developing countries have much higher tariffs than developed ones."

The automotive sector is politically sensitive because it employs large numbers of workers and often symbolizes a country's industrial might.

Wealthier countries tend to impose lower tariffs because they have more efficient ways of raising revenue, like income taxes, and more sophisticated means for supporting domestic industries, like subsidies and other nontariff barriers, Lincicome said.

"If you're doing it on an average tariff basis, we'd actually have to lower our rates to match most European nations," he said.

The top six destinations for American exports are Canada, Mexico, China, the Netherlands, the United Kingdom and Japan. Of those, China has the highest average trade-weighted tariff of 6.54%, but following the first Trump trade war, begun in 2018, and recent tensions, it has a much higher 21.1% rate on U.S. goods, according to an analysis by the Peterson Institute for International Economics.

Top destinations for U.S. exporters

```
   Rank  Country               Percent of total U.S. exports 
   1     Canada                16.3% 
   2     Mexico                14.8% 
   3     China                 7.6% 
   4     Netherlands           4.5% 
   5     United Kingdom        4.5% 
   6     Japan                 4.0% 
   7     Germany               3.2% 
   8     South Korea           3.2% 
   9     Brazil                2.6% 
   10    Taiwan                2.2% 
   11    Singapore             2.2% 
   12    France                2.2% 
   13    India                 1.9% 
   14    Australia             1.6% 
   15    United Arab Emirates  1.4% 
```

With Trump's recent announcement of additional 10% tariffs on Chinese imports, the average rate charged on Chinese goods imported into the U.S. will likely be higher than what China imposes on American imports, Lincicome said.

With a new reciprocal regime, we might see Trump raise rates slightly on imports from the U.K. and Japan, which have marginally higher average tariffs than the U.S. The real change would apply to imports from developing countries like Brazil and India.

Brazil and India are the ninth- and 13th-largest export markets for U.S. goods, according to data from the Commerce Department, and they have trade-weighted average tariff rates of 11.4% and 7.5%, respectively, according to World Bank Data.

Another country that is likely to get hit with new tariffs is Vietnam, where analysts say Chinese companies are increasingly setting up shop to avoid high U.S. tariffs. Vietnamese exports to the U.S. have soared in value from $46.5 billion in 2017 to $136.6 billion last year, a 193% rise. In comparison, there has been a 62% increase in U.S. exports to Vietnam, which totaled just $13.2 billion in 2024.

Any Trump plan for reciprocal tariffs would likely hit countries like Vietnam hard and could lead to higher tariffs on countries with nominally low tariffs if the policy seeks to take account of nontariff barriers to trade, according to Stephen Brown, deputy chief economist for North America at Capital Economics.

"The optimistic take of this potential plan is that the Trump administration is trying to take a more measured approach to rebalancing trade than we have assumed, which could eventually result in a lower global tariff rate," Brown wrote in a Monday client note. "Nonetheless, given Trump's penchant to act first and negotiate later, it still seems likely that tariffs will push up inflation this year."

-Chris Matthews

This content was created by MarketWatch, which is operated by Dow Jones & Co. MarketWatch is published independently from Dow Jones Newswires and The Wall Street Journal.

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

02-10-25 2106ET

Copyright (c) 2025 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

[morningstar](https://www.morningstar.com/news/marketwatch/20250210401/trump-has-promised-reciprocal-tariffs-americans-could-pay-more-on-imports-from-these-countries)
