---
title: "Trump says he'll roll out reciprocal tariffs this week. Here are his possible targets."
date: "2025-02-10 06:40:46"
summary: "By Victor Reklaitis Trump trade adviser Peter Navarro has suggested prioritizing 8 of the U.S.'s trading partners President Donald Trump on Friday said his administration would have an announcement about reciprocal tariffs, telling reporters that there could be action on the matter in the early part of this week. \"They..."
categories:
  - "morningstar"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "morningstar"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Victor Reklaitis

Trump trade adviser Peter Navarro has suggested prioritizing 8 of the U.S.'s trading partners

President Donald Trump on Friday said his administration would have an announcement about reciprocal tariffs, telling reporters that there could be action on the matter in the early part of this week.

"They charge us, we charge them," Trump said during a joint news conference with Japanese Prime Minister Shigeru Ishiba.

In further comments Sunday, as he announced plans for 25% tariffs against all steel and aluminum imports, Trump said an announcement on the reciprocal tariffs is likely Tuesday or Wednesday.

Reciprocal tariffs were a key topic in Trump's first term and in his 2024 presidential campaign. They also featured in a section of the Heritage Foundation's Project 2025 plan that was written by Peter Navarro, who is currently the president's senior counselor for trade and manufacturing after also serving in the first Trump administration.

Navarro wrote that if a measure that Trump called for in 2019 - the U.S. Reciprocal Trade Act - were enacted, a president likely would have to prioritize which countries to negotiate with first, and possible targets could be "those countries that have relatively large trade deficits with the U.S. and apply relatively high tariffs."

The top priorities - countries in a red zone - ought to be China and India, according to Navarro's analysis for Project 2025. The trading partners "in the yellow zone" are the "European Union, which features a very high deficit, along with Thailand, Taiwan and Vietnam, which feature particularly high tariff differentials," he said. In a third tier of targets, Navarro reckons, would be Japan and Malaysia.

Trump reiterated his support for a reciprocal trade measure in a campaign video in June 2023, around half a year after announcing his third White House run. He said in that video: "If India, China or any other country hits us with a 100% or 200% tariff on American-made goods, we will hit them with the same exact tariff. In other words, 100% is 100%. If they charge us, we charge them - an eye for an eye, a tariff for a tariff, same exact amount." The campaign announcement also noted that reciprocal tariffs got support from 91% of conservatives and 75% of Democrats in a 2019 Harvard-Harris poll.

U.S. stocks SPX DJIA COMP closed with losses Friday as traders digested Trump's latest tariff plans.

Economists have warned that Trump's proposed taxes on imports would boost inflation at a time when Americans are already frustrated with elevated prices. Supporters of tariffs include the Coalition for a Prosperous America, which maintains that they're an "essential tool for rebuilding the U.S. industrial base, fostering long-term economic growth and reducing dependence on foreign imports."

On Monday, China's retaliatory tariffs on certain American products are due to take effect, with those duties coming after Trump's new 10% levy on Chinese imports kicked in. Trump has agreed to a 30-day delay for new tariffs targeting imports from Canada and Mexico.

-Victor Reklaitis

This content was created by MarketWatch, which is operated by Dow Jones & Co. MarketWatch is published independently from Dow Jones Newswires and The Wall Street Journal.

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

02-09-25 1728ET

Copyright (c) 2025 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

[morningstar](https://www.morningstar.com/news/marketwatch/20250209184/trump-says-hell-roll-out-reciprocal-tariffs-this-week-here-are-his-possible-targets)
