---
title: "Why the options market is hotter than ever and could be on track for more records"
date: "2025-02-13 01:10:48"
summary: "By Joseph Adinolfi Activity hit a new monthly record in January, setting the stage for 2025 to be a sixth-straight record year Options trading volume hit a fresh record in January as nearly 1.2 billion contracts changed hands, according to data from Cboe Global Markets. Such a strong start to..."
categories:
  - "morningstar"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "morningstar"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Joseph Adinolfi

Activity hit a new monthly record in January, setting the stage for 2025 to be a sixth-straight record year

Options trading volume hit a fresh record in January as nearly 1.2 billion contracts changed hands, according to data from Cboe Global Markets.

Such a strong start to 2025 could set the stage for a sixth straight year of record activity in the U.S. equity options market, a representative from Cboe said. The exchange estimated that between 13 billion and 14 billion contracts could trade this year, compared with nearly 12.3 billion in 2024.

See: 2024 was another record-breaking year for options trading. What's on tap for the industry in 2025.

"We saw record options activity in January as retail and institutional investors adjusted positions and managed volatility into the new presidential regime and dealt with concerns over AI dominance related to DeepSeek," said Henry Schwartz, vice president of market intelligence at Cboe.

Options trading activity has soared since 2019 as more retail and institutional traders started participating in the market. In that time, total trading volume has more than doubled.

Others agreed that volume would likely continue to climb in 2025 as investors seek to hedge headline risk related to President Trump's policy agenda, and the uncertain impact on the U.S. economy and markets.

"Bottom line: There's more potential volatility, more headline risk and more participants entering the market," Danny Kirsch, head of options trading at Piper Sandler, told MarketWatch.

Kirsch noted that institutional and retail investors have become more active in the options market over the past couple of years. Also notable: The proliferation of ETFs that use options to either juice daily returns, or offer investors protection against a stock-market selloff, have also helped boost demand for options contracts.

In January, investors aggressively traded options tied to indexes, individual stocks and ETFs. ETFs are considered equities, but options traders also used contracts tied to certain products to gain exposure to movements in bonds, and commodities like gold and silver.

Among individual stocks, the most popular contracts were linked to Nvidia Corp. (NVDA), the AI darling that has been a favorite among options traders over the past couple of years.

Nvidia's shares have risen by more than 528% over the past two years. Average daily turnover in contracts tied to shares of the chip designer eclipsed 5 million per day in January, according to data from Cboe and the Options Clearing Corporation.

At times, trading in Nvidia options was so frenzied that it eclipsed activity in contracts tied to more popular index-tracking products, like the SPDR S&P 500 ETF SPY. This was the case on Jan. 27, when China's DeepSeek shook up the AI trade, eliciting a nearly $600 billion wipeout for Nvidia. And again on Jan. 30, as traders responded to news that Trump would soon make good on his tariff threats against Canada, Mexico and China.

Contracts tied to Meta Platforms Inc. (META) saw the biggest jump in volume among individual stocks, spiking 57% in January compared with their average from December. Shares of the social-media giant embarked on a record-setting winning streak last month that has continued through Tuesday's close. Meta shares climbed for a 17th straight session on Tuesday, according to FactSet data. The company's shares were trading higher early Wednesday.

Popular zero-day-to-expiry options tied to ETFs and indexes with contracts expiring every day of the trading week saw a pickup in overall demand relative to longer-lived options tied to those products. Overall, demand for 0DTE options increased to 23.7% as a percentage of overall volume in January, compared with an average of 21.5% in 2024.

Across the options market, activity was heavily tilted toward bullish call options. Still, there were some signs that investors were positioning for possible pain ahead for stocks. Trading in contracts tied to the Cboe Volatility Index VIX, otherwise known as the VIX or Wall Street's "fear gauge," jumped 31%, with traders favoring call options that would likely pay off if the S&P 500 experienced a sudden, sharp decline.

Another notable development: Implied dispersion between individual S&P 500 stocks and the index itself touched its highest level in three years late last month, according to Cboe's S&P 500 Dispersion Index.

The dispersion index tends to rise when investors see big swings in individual stocks that dwarf moves in the index. That certainly was the case last month, as Nvidia shares fell by more than 17% on Jan. 27, outpacing the 1.5% decline in the S&P 500.

Kirsch described the Jan. 27 DeepSeek selloff as a "dream scenario" for the dispersion trade, a popular strategy among sophisticated quantitative and systematic investors that typically pays off when the dispersion index rises.

-Joseph Adinolfi

This content was created by MarketWatch, which is operated by Dow Jones & Co. MarketWatch is published independently from Dow Jones Newswires and The Wall Street Journal.

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

02-12-25 1202ET

Copyright (c) 2025 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

[morningstar](https://www.morningstar.com/news/marketwatch/20250212285/why-the-options-market-is-hotter-than-ever-and-could-be-on-track-for-more-records)
