---
title: "My son's father died, but his stepmother won't return his calls. We don't even know if there's a will. What now?"
date: "2025-02-08 22:30:49"
summary: "By Quentin Fottrell 'My son is hurt, to say the least, that she is acting this way' Dear Quentin, My ex-husband recently passed away. He and our son were close and in his final months, our son was one of his main caretakers. My ex had remarried, and my son..."
categories:
  - "morningstar"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "morningstar"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Quentin Fottrell

'My son is hurt, to say the least, that she is acting this way'

Dear Quentin,

My ex-husband recently passed away. He and our son were close and in his final months, our son was one of his main caretakers. My ex had remarried, and my son and his wife thought they had a pretty good relationship with his stepmother. About a year ago, my ex told our son he was the executor of his will, but he never gave our son a copy of the will.

Now he is wondering if there was a will and if he needs to get a copy. Obviously, she is not going to give him a copy.

Now that my ex is deceased, his wife has cut off all communication with him and his wife. They both have tried to contact her to see how she is and if they can do anything to help her. She has not responded. My son is hurt, to say the least, that she is acting this way. Now he is wondering if there was a will and if he needs to get a copy.

Obviously, she is not going to give him a copy. Does he have any recourse here or a legal right to see the copy of the will? If so, how does he approach it? Does he need to hire an attorney? We live in Wisconsin, which is a marital property state, so I believe the wife would get everything anyway, and I don't know if a will would make a difference in this case.

Ex-Wife & Mother

Related: 'My father, 75, died without a will': His ex-wife, fiancée and children are hiding his financial documents. What can I do?

Dear Ex-Wife,

If there is no will, your son still has an interest in this estate.

It's a stressful process, but the time has come to consult with a trust and estate attorney in your estate. "In some cases, if you have reasonable cause to believe that someone is hiding a will, you may need to file a petition with the probate court to compel the production of the will. The court can issue an order requiring the person to produce the will," according to the Senior Advocate Center, an organization that aims to provide elder law resources. That may lead to mediation, legal action or reporting a case of suspected fraud to law enforcement, it adds.

It may be that your ex-husband did not get around to making a will and, even if he did, neglected to name your son as executor. Either scenario is possible: Based on a survey by Caring.com and AARP, only 45% of people over 55 have a will; that rises to 81% for those over 72. If there is a will and it can be found, your son has many rights, assuming he is a beneficiary. The Senior Advocate Center says those rights include the right to a copy of the will, the right to challenge the will and the right to his inheritance.

If I had a penny for every step-parent who went silent after their spouse died, I'd have a jar full of pennies.

If I had a penny for every step-parent who stopped picking up their phone after their spouse passed away, I'd have a jar full of pennies. He has tried to approach this situation respectfully and courteously, and he can still do that, but that does not mean he has to act without speed and assertiveness. Cutting off contact with your son, after all, is already a passive-aggressive act. It's best to be direct and follow the law. Your son faces two questions and challenges: If there is a will, can it be found? If your ex-husband did die intestate, who gets what?

The answer to the latter question is more straightforward: If there is no will, your son and his stepmother will each inherit half of your ex-husband's separate property under probate law in Wisconsin. What's more, your son would be entitled to your ex-husband's share of their community property. His estate would have to go through probate. Any other bank or life-insurance accounts that have beneficiaries would bypass probate and go directly to those named beneficiaries. There's nothing your son's stepmother can do to prevent that.

Either way, your son would seem to have interests to protect.

Related: 'We were in a bad place': My husband wrote a secret will. Should I do the same - and remove him as beneficiary on my life insurance?

You can email The Moneyist with any financial and ethical questions at qfottrell@marketwatch.com, and follow Quentin Fottrell on X, the platform formerly known as Twitter.

The Moneyist regrets he cannot reply to questions individually.

More columns from Quentin Fottrell:

'I opt to fly private - no matter what the cost': The caviar in first class tastes like burnt plastic. What ever happened to airline standards?

I'm 54 and have terminal cancer. I have a wife, 47, and an 8-year-old child. How do I split my $1.2 million retirement and life insurance between them?

'She's the queen of CDs': My mother-in-law, 83, opened 12 CDs at different financial institutions. Should I intervene?

Check out The Moneyist's private Facebook group, where members help answer life's thorniest money issues. Post your questions, or weigh in on the latest Moneyist columns.

By emailing your questions to The Moneyist or posting your dilemmas on The Moneyist Facebook group, you agree to have them published anonymously on MarketWatch.

By submitting your story to Dow Jones & Co., the publisher of MarketWatch, you understand and agree that we may use your story, or versions of it, in all media and platforms, including via third parties.

-Quentin Fottrell

This content was created by MarketWatch, which is operated by Dow Jones & Co. MarketWatch is published independently from Dow Jones Newswires and The Wall Street Journal.

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

02-08-25 0904ET

Copyright (c) 2025 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

[morningstar](https://www.morningstar.com/news/marketwatch/20250208184/my-sons-father-died-but-his-stepmother-wont-return-his-calls-we-dont-even-know-if-theres-a-will-what-now)
