---
title: "My husband has millions in a trust fund, pays all our bills and gives me $4,000 a month. Will I get our house if I divorce him?"
date: "2025-02-09 02:20:46"
summary: "By Quentin Fottrell 'He pays all of our bills, including all our taxes, from one of his investment accounts' Dear Quentin, I'm 48 and my husband is 51. He doesn't work but lives off his investment accounts with a major brokerage house. If I file for divorce, what should I..."
categories:
  - "morningstar"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "morningstar"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Quentin Fottrell

'He pays all of our bills, including all our taxes, from one of his investment accounts'

Dear Quentin,

I'm 48 and my husband is 51. He doesn't work but lives off his investment accounts with a major brokerage house. If I file for divorce, what should I expect for a fair and equitable division of assets? Do I have any legitimate claim to his accounts that have never been in my name? I believe he would let me keep the home, but how would I pay to maintain it?

I do some freelance consulting work, but I only earn about $20,000 per year. He pays all of our bills, including all our taxes, from one of his investment accounts. I pay no taxes on my income, and at tax time he has our taxes prepared by his accountant and we file jointly. He withdraws only what he needs and leaves the remaining income to be reinvested.

'After the birth of our first child 12 years ago, I stopped working full time and my husband put $4,000 every month into a joint checking account.'

We have $30,000 left on our $400,000 mortgage, which we took out three years after we married. In the current market, it appraises for $800,000. After the birth of our first child 12 years ago, I stopped working full time and my husband put $4,000 every month into a joint checking account for me to use as I wish.

Between this "stipend" and the money I earn, I have managed to put $100,000 into an individual IRA and $50,000 into a savings account in my name only. His two investment accounts were originally trust funds that were given to him before we met. After five years of marriage he was given the accounts in their entirety, at which point they became standard investment accounts.

He has kept both of those accounts in his name only and uses the smaller of the two to pay our bills and my monthly stipend. I never see any statements. From what I gather, I suspect those accounts are worth approximately $2 million collectively. Things are not great in our marriage and I'm considering leaving him.

Considering Divorce in Maine

Related: I've been named sole heir': My father, 92, is a Korean War veteran and stays out until dawn playing poker. What can I do?

Dear Considering,

You don't say what has led you to consider divorce. Your husband has been, on the face of it, generous. But finance and romance require very different skills and present different needs. And while he puts $4,000 into an account for you every month, you have worked part time, spent years as a homemaker and raised your children. We never know what actually goes on inside a seemingly happy marriage, and you only have one life to live, so it should be a fulfilling one.

I say all that not in an effort to pry, but because in Maine, filing for divorce is different than in many other states. Maine is an equitable-distribution state, which means assets are divided fairly if not always equally. It also takes into account the appreciation of assets acquired prior to a marriage and follows both "no-fault" (irreconcilable differences) and "at-fault" (desertion, adultery or cruelty) divorce models. The latter, if applicable, could affect your settlement.

All things being equal, if you filed for a no-fault divorce, a judge would likely take into account many factors, such as both of your respective contributions to the marriage.

All things being equal, if you filed for a no-fault divorce, a judge would likely take into account many factors, such as both of your respective contributions to the marriage. That might include the time you put into raising your children and the years you took out of your career, along with the money your husband contributed to the marriage and the length of time you have been married. You could end up with the house, with your husband's blessing, or it could be sold and the proceeds split 50/50.

Given the disparity in your incomes, you would likely be eligible for spousal support and child support. "A typical alimony order will require the spouse of greater income to pay monthly support to the other until the alimony order ends, though there are several types of spousal support," according to the law firm Shaheen & Gordon, which has offices in Maine. "A family law court never wants a child's well-being to be damaged by divorce or separation."

There are no guarantees that you will walk away with 50% of your husband's assets. In fact, given that he brought millions of dollars into the marriage, you would more likely leave the marriage with 50% of your marital assets. Since you cannot afford to buy your husband out of his share of the house, a judge might allow you to live there in order to provide a stable home for your children for an agreed period of time - such as until they leave for college.

Like many spouses seeking a new life, in your bid for freedom and a new life, you will have to balance your happiness with your independence.

Related: 'How do I shield my retirement savings?' I'm worried about Trump's trade war and Fed's willingness to cut interest rates

You can email The Moneyist with any financial and ethical questions at qfottrell@marketwatch.com, and follow Quentin Fottrell on X, the platform formerly known as Twitter.

The Moneyist regrets he cannot reply to questions individually.

More columns from Quentin Fottrell:

'I paid for everything from day one': My husband barely worked during our marriage. Can I leave my $500,000 IRA to my son?

'We are shocked and upset': My mother died and her second husband said he now owns everything. Is this true?

'I trust that my husband isn't a gold digger': I'm inheriting millions of dollars. My husband says I'm 'selfish' to keep it. Should I share it?

Check out The Moneyist's private Facebook group, where members help answer life's thorniest money issues. Post your questions, or weigh in on the latest Moneyist columns.

By emailing your questions to The Moneyist or posting your dilemmas on The Moneyist Facebook group, you agree to have them published anonymously on MarketWatch.

By submitting your story to Dow Jones & Co., the publisher of MarketWatch, you understand and agree that we may use your story, or versions of it, in all media and platforms, including via third parties.

-Quentin Fottrell

This content was created by MarketWatch, which is operated by Dow Jones & Co. MarketWatch is published independently from Dow Jones Newswires and The Wall Street Journal.

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

02-08-25 1303ET

Copyright (c) 2025 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

[morningstar](https://www.morningstar.com/news/marketwatch/20250208194/my-husband-has-millions-in-a-trust-fund-pays-all-our-bills-and-gives-me-4000-a-month-will-i-get-our-house-if-i-divorce-him)
