---
title: "The bond market just sent a message about Trump's second term. Stock investors should listen."
date: "2025-02-10 21:40:51"
summary: "By Joy Wiltermuth Calm in bonds suggests it's time to pencil in stocks you like - but wait for market-moving headlines from Washington Here's the message from the bond market: Keep your shirt on. President Trump's second term was preceded by an ugly selloff in U.S. government bonds that revived..."
categories:
  - "morningstar"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "morningstar"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Joy Wiltermuth

Calm in bonds suggests it's time to pencil in stocks you like - but wait for market-moving headlines from Washington

Here's the message from the bond market: Keep your shirt on.

President Trump's second term was preceded by an ugly selloff in U.S. government bonds that revived the possibility of 5% yields for the benchmark 10-year Treasury note.

That raised concerns that trouble could be brewing for stocks, and potentially the U.S. economy, if higher long-term rates were to stick around.

Yet in a curious move, longer-term bond yields eased back to around 4.5%, while stocks whipsawed as Trump's second term started off much like his first - with a barrage of headlines and cliffhangers to keep everyone guessing.

"Nothing is clear," said John Kornitzer, founder of Kornitzer Capital Management and the Buffalo Funds. Whether on tariffs, foreign aid, oil policies or shrinking the U.S. government, "everything is in disarray."

Still, a volatile policy backdrop won't necessarily be bad for stock pickers in the weeks and months ahead. "Take advantage of situations," Kornitzer said - adding that if headlines "hit something you like, if you like a company long term, you buy it."

Stocks turned lower Friday after a survey of consumer sentiment signaled that Americans expect inflation to rise. That followed January's mixed jobs report showing a pickup in wage pressures as the unemployment rate fell to 4%.

Losses intensified after Trump said he was planning reciprocal tariffs on U.S. trading partners next week. Trump already delayed by a month proposed 25% tariffs on Canada and Mexico, but allowed a new 10% tariff on China to take hold.

But the bond market pretty much shrugged the drama off.

Bessent channels Yellen

Inflation remains a worry for the bond market, especially after it triggered historic losses in 2022 as the Federal Reserve quickly raised interest rates, causing a sea of low-coupon bonds to tumble in value and stocks to fall.

"The market is right to be cautious," said Matt Peron, global head of the solutions group at Janus Henderson Investors, who noted that Friday's jobs data reinforced worries that the battle against inflation probably "is not out of the woods yet."

Still, the 10-year Treasury yield BX:TMUBMUSD10Y ended the week at 4.83%, down about 14 basis points over the past two weeks. If it keeps holding tight, "the market can handle that easily," Peron said. "If rates were to spike in a short period of time above 5%, then we'd know the bond vigilantes were out."

A major concern for 2025 has been that Trump's agenda on tariffs, immigration and additional tax cuts could add to the already large U.S. budget deficit. Should buyers of government debt go on strike, yields would jump and Washington could be forced to take action to limit spending.

Higher yields make it more expensive for companies, households and the U.S. government to borrow.

Treasury Secretary Scott Bessent said Wednesday that the Trump administration is now focused on getting 10-year yields down, instead of pressuring the Fed to cut short-term rates.

Perhaps more importantly, though, one of Bessent's first moves at the helm of the Treasury helped calm nerves behind the scenes.

Guy LeBas, chief fixed-income strategist at Janney Montgomery Scott, said the bond market gave a sigh of relief when the Treasury's quarterly refunding announcement on Wednesday indicated no major increase in longer-term debt issuance.

A concern was that Bessent might ditch the Treasury's reliance on short-term bill issuance, a Yellen-era policy, in managing the nation's debt. That "fear factor" has now faded, LeBas said - adding that it still could become an issue in 2026, depending on the deficit backdrop.

"I'm looking forward to a broadly boring year in the interest-rate market," LeBas said.

Bond-market calm

Recent calm in the bond market suggests the biggest shocks on the path to more "normalized" interest rates may have passed.

Should longer-term rates "grind up slowly" from here, the market can probably digest that, Janus's Peron said, while warning that the path still could have potholes.

"You want to be selective, stay higher in quality," Peron said. For now, he thinks the next sweet spot for stocks will be in "GARP" equities, or growth at reasonable prices. "But there will be some volatility."

It helps equities that, unlike in the wake of the COVID crisis of 2020, the U.S. economy doesn't look in danger of falling apart, especially with the unemployment rate staying low.

Earnings overall have been positive too, despite some disappointment around the megacap technology giants. Optimism has been spreading to other parts of the stock market as well.

About 62% of S&P 500 companies have now reported fourth-quarter results, increasing the blended quarterly earnings growth rate to 16.4% on Friday, up from 11.8% at the end of December, according to FactSet.

The economic backdrop also likely bolsters the case for the Fed to keep a pause on further rate cuts. The central bank's short-term policy rate has been lowered 100 basis points since September to a 4.25% to 4.5% range. But with inflation proving sticky above the Fed's 2% yearly target, significantly lower rates look unlikely.

Related: Inside the Fed, fears increase that Trump tariffs would boost inflation

"Right now, it seems like the bond market is looking at a decent economy and interest rates staying higher for longer," said James Ragan, director of Wealth Management Research at D.A. Davidson.

Despite the slight pullback in stocks, the major indexes remain near record territory, he noted, even without the technology sector leading the way up in 2025.

"It's early in the year, but so far markets are going up, even without tech participating," Ragan said. "That's a positive thing."

Futures pointed to a higher open Monday, but the Dow Jones Industrial Average DJIA closed the week 0.5% lower, snapping a three-week win streak, according to Dow Jones Market Data. The S&P 500 SPX ended the week down 0.2%, while the Nasdaq Composite COMP shed 0.5% on the week.

On deck are several Fed speakers, including Chair Jerome Powell's testimony to Congress on Tuesday and Wednesday. The big economic data item comes Wednesday via the consumer-price index for January.

-Joy Wiltermuth

This content was created by MarketWatch, which is operated by Dow Jones & Co. MarketWatch is published independently from Dow Jones Newswires and The Wall Street Journal.

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

02-10-25 0831ET

Copyright (c) 2025 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

[morningstar](https://www.morningstar.com/news/marketwatch/2025021071/the-bond-market-just-sent-a-message-about-trumps-second-term-stock-investors-should-listen)
