---
title: "Super Micro cuts its outlook - but there's a silver lining supporting its stock"
date: "2025-02-12 09:30:59"
summary: "By Emily Bary Super Micro predicts far more revenue for its next fiscal year than analysts were projecting. The company also expects to submit its delayed annual filing by the Feb. 25 deadline. While Super Micro Computer Inc. cut its guidance for the fiscal year, there's a silver lining for..."
categories:
  - "morningstar"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "morningstar"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Emily Bary

Super Micro predicts far more revenue for its next fiscal year than analysts were projecting. The company also expects to submit its delayed annual filing by the Feb. 25 deadline.

While Super Micro Computer Inc. cut its guidance for the fiscal year, there's a silver lining for investors.

The company now projects $23.5 billion to $25 billion in revenue for the fiscal year that ends in June. Its prior range was for $26 billion to $30 billion.

But Super Micro (SMCI) Chief Executive Charles Liang also said in a release Tuesday that the company is "paving the way" for $40 billion in revenue during fiscal 2026. That's well above the $29 billion that analysts were modeling for that period.

On the earnings call, he said the $40 billion target could also be "very conservative." The company is hoping to ship more volume once its allocation of new Nvidia products improves.

Liang sees Super Micro "well-positioned to grow AI infrastructure design wins based on Nvidia Blackwell and more." He cheered Super Micro's "exceptional product quality, service, software, networking, and security with data-center building blocks."

Super Micro shares rose 8.4% in volatile after-hours action Tuesday. The stock is up 66% over the past three months but has been cut roughly in half over a one-year span.

Opinion: Here's the $280 billion reason that AI-chip stocks will be just fine

The company still has to submit its delayed annual filing for last fiscal year, and the deadline for that is coming up on Feb. 25. Super Micro said it "continues to work diligently" toward that filing and expects to meet the deadline with its annual report as well as its quarterly report for September.

For the latest quarter, Super Micro provided preliminary results and said it expects to report $5.6 billion to $5.7 billion in revenue. That compares with the $5.8 billion consensus view.

Super Micro also expects to report an 11.9% adjusted gross margin for the December quarter. That's down from 13.3% in the September quarter.

The company disclosed in Tuesday's release that late in 2024, it received Justice Department and Securities and Exchange Commission subpoenas "seeking certain documents following the publication of allegations in a short-seller report which was published in August 2024." Super Micro said it is cooperating with those requests.

Read: Buy Nvidia's stock ahead of earnings? This analyst makes the case.

-Emily Bary

This content was created by MarketWatch, which is operated by Dow Jones & Co. MarketWatch is published independently from Dow Jones Newswires and The Wall Street Journal.

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

02-11-25 2012ET

Copyright (c) 2025 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

[morningstar](https://www.morningstar.com/news/marketwatch/20250211365/super-micro-cuts-its-outlook-but-theres-a-silver-lining-supporting-its-stock)
