---
title: "China's economic miracle appears to be in the past. Here's why the future looks bleaker and bleaker."
date: "2025-02-08 20:00:55"
summary: "Tanner Brown Weak consumption, an aging population and an exodus of personal wealth combine to put China on a perilous path Jane Wu exemplifies the current struggles China's economy faces as well as its bleak future. The unemployed Beijing resident finished a graduate degree at University College London last year..."
categories:
  - "morningstar"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "morningstar"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Tanner Brown

Weak consumption, an aging population and an exodus of personal wealth combine to put China on a perilous path

Jane Wu exemplifies the current struggles China's economy faces as well as its bleak future.

The unemployed Beijing resident finished a graduate degree at University College London last year and has had no luck since in China's cutthroat job market.

The rate of unemployment for those between the ages of 16 and 24 nearly hit 20% last month, meaning roughly one in every five Chinese simply cannot find a job - like Wu. Even her master's degree from a well-regarded Western university has failed to land her a job.

There are, for Wu, ramifications.

The most immediate is that she does not have the financial wherewithal to participate in China's consumer system - at least not beyond buying the bare essentials, like instant noodles, eggs and tofu, she said.

"I'm living on a shoestring budget. I just don't have the money," she said in her near-fluent British English.

'Even if I married a man with a good job and a good family, I don't see us ever having the financial resources to raise a child in Beijing.'Jane Wu

Wu's inability to engage actively in China's economy is a single example of a mass forced savings rate that is crippling that economy. The country's leaders have long said they wanted to shift the direction of development from manufacturing and exports and tap into its enormous consumer base.

But that goal has been elusive for a decade, exacerbated by the coronavirus epidemic and a crisis in China's property market.

Like many in China, Wu's parents lost a staggering chunk of their savings over the last three years as home prices plummeted. "I know they'd want to help me more, but times are tight even for them," she told MarketWatch in a telephone interview.

Nearly 70% of Chinese household wealth is tied up in real estate - among the world's highest rates - according to government statistics.

Wu's predicament isn't just part of China's current economic malaise. The hardship she is experiencing, and the "new normal" of slow growth projected for China's economy, have already convinced her that having children one day is a dream that will likely remain beyond her means.

"Even if I married a man with a good job and a good family, I don't see us ever having the financial resources to raise a child in Beijing," she said.

This experience - common across the country - is among the dark clouds gathering for China's economic growth and social development.

China is facing a demographic time bomb. Its population shrank for the third straight year in 2024, putting it on course for a 'Japanification' in which the old vastly outnumber the working-age population.

China is facing a demographic time bomb. Its population shrank for the third straight year in 2024, putting it on course for a "Japanification" in which the old vastly outnumber the working-age population, which cannot support social programs, putting undue pressure on China's vast number of only children to support their aging parents.

And China's explosive aging cohort has its own troubles mounting. The country's faltering government pension system is set to run dry by 2035, according to the pre-eminent Chinese Academy of Social Sciences.

From the archives (March 2024): China's economy is slowing. But its old-age market is booming.

Chinese leaders have repeatedly said they would implement measures to support unemployment, consumer confidence and the pension system, but little has materialized.

The lack of financial confidence has been an accelerant to the downward spiral. Millions of citizens are trying to get whatever money they do have out of the country.

The super-rich have been reallocating funds outside of China for decades, long before President Xi Jinping's reign and China's new normal of slower-paced economic expansion. Signs have recently emerged that even middle-class Chinese have become so worried about the security of their savings that they, too, are seeking ways - navigating relatively greater difficulty - to move funds abroad, often to the U.S., Australia or the United Kingdom.

The super-rich have been reallocating funds outside of China for decades.

Xiaoli Xu graduated from a college in southern California just as the pandemic ended. Her family expended most of their savings to send her abroad in the hope of a better life, with greater freedom and greater security.

But as China's economy has stubbornly refused to rebound, their focus narrowed to getting her a green card before her H-1B nonimmigrant visa expired.

"The hope was to get a job, a green card and eventually buy a home in the U.S., even if it meant my parents selling their apartment [in China]," she said in a phone interview.

That plan is stalling, and she has now begun looking at a program in Canada that allows Chinese to acquire permanent residence after working for a few years.

"My dad is the most worried" about their family's financial condition in China, she said. "He wants our savings out, and he seems willing to do anything to [make that happen]."

Tanner Brown covers China for MarketWatch and Barron's.

More Tanner Brown dispatches:

Supreme Court looks set to uphold TikTok ban. U.S. users are fleeing to another Chinese app as 'refugees.'

Foreign brands are back in China. But the economy has cooled and domestic competition is dug-in.

U.S. companies reassert their dominance of Fortune Global 500 ranks vs. rival China

China's economy needs more than this stimulus plan to lift it out of the doldrums, experts say

-Tanner Brown

This content was created by MarketWatch, which is operated by Dow Jones & Co. MarketWatch is published independently from Dow Jones Newswires and The Wall Street Journal.

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

02-08-25 0645ET

Copyright (c) 2025 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

[morningstar](https://www.morningstar.com/news/marketwatch/20250208174/chinas-economic-miracle-appears-to-be-in-the-past-heres-why-the-future-looks-bleaker-and-bleaker)
