---
title: "I'm a wife and mother. Can I secretly change my will and leave everything to my daughter instead of my husband?"
date: "2025-02-12 18:20:49"
summary: "By Quentin Fottrell 'Happy Valentine's Day (almost)' Dear Quentin, Happy Valentine's Day (almost). This is a short question. Brace yourself: I have been married for several years. My will leaves everything to him. I want to replace it with a will that leaves everything to my adult daughter. Can I..."
categories:
  - "morningstar"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "morningstar"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Quentin Fottrell

'Happy Valentine's Day (almost)'

Dear Quentin,

Happy Valentine's Day (almost). This is a short question. Brace yourself: I have been married for several years. My will leaves everything to him. I want to replace it with a will that leaves everything to my adult daughter. Can I change it without his knowledge?

Wife & Mother

Related: 'Sometimes, I can't pay all my bills': I've been trying to put money aside for a European vacation. My therapist says no. Who's right?

Dear Wife & Mother,

Happy Valentine's Day to you - and many happy returns.

This year, your daughter will get a rose, while your husband will make do with a bag of thorns. Well, what he doesn't know won't cut him. At least, not yet. You can likely leave some of your estate to your daughter, which obviously doesn't include marital property, but it will be tougher to disinherit your spouse 100%. That's the short answer.

Some people get a shock when their spouse dies - receipts for a strip club hidden in a shoebox, debt, empty bank accounts and, yes, a new will. Other times, spouses find out about their spouse's estate plan while they are still married, like this woman who discovered her husband was splitting his estate between her and her stepdaughter.

So down the business. Obviously, in an ideal world, it's best to sign legal documents with the full knowledge of your life partner, but you don't say much about him or why you want to leave your entire estate to your daughter. It could be because you believe it's a better use of your hard-earned money, which is your prerogative, especially if he married again, and/or because he's a louse.

You can leave your IRA to anyone, so by all means update the beneficiary designation, but you can't change the beneficiary on your employer-sponsored 401(k) willy-nilly.

Either way, you can certainly do a lot without changing your will. You could, depending on the type of ownership, pass your share of your house to your daughter with a transfer-on-death deed. Ditto other accounts that are held separately, including separate bank accounts, brokerage accounts and, depending on where you live, some retirement accounts.

Joint ownership with the right of survivorship gives all owners an equal share of the property and does not allow one owner to add another person to the deed - and, importantly, if one owner dies, their share of the property goes to the other owners. If you are tenants in common, you would not have the right of survivorship.

Rules vary by state. You can leave your IRA to anyone, including your daughter, so by all means update the beneficiary designation today, but you can't change the beneficiary on your employer-sponsored 401(k) willy-nilly, I'm sorry to report. In fact, your husband would need to agree to give up his claim to that.

That's because the Employee Retirement Income Security Act regulates the administration of employee-based retirement plans; the Retirement Equity Act requires that certain employer plans be provided for spouses. Some states also have a "right of election" where the disinherited spouse may file a claim through the courts for a share of their spouse's assets, if they are disinherited.

Some states also have a 'right of election' where the disinherited spouse may file a claim through the courts for a share of their spouse's assets.

In New York, the surviving spouse may be entitled to a "spousal elective share" - $50,000 or one-third of their late spouse's net estate, whichever is larger. The surviving spouse in California, meanwhile, has the right to claim an elective share of the deceased spouse's estate, which is generally one-half of the community property.

"Since passage of the Retirement Equity Act of 1984, beneficiaries of defined-benefit plans must obtain written spousal consent to take payment in a form other than a joint-and-survivor annuity," AARP says. "Such protection for spouses is unavailable in individual retirement accounts (IRAs) and rare in defined-contribution plans."

"Thus, employees can withdraw and use 401(k) and IRA assets without spousal consent," the organization adds. "This is a serious shortcoming. However, when designating who should be the beneficiary in the case of death, defined-contribution participants cannot specify a beneficiary other than the spouse."

That was probably more information than you were looking for, but I hope it helps pave the road ahead with rose petals rather than thorns.

Related: I paid for my wife's M.A. and vacations. I suggested we save for a house, but she left me - and my in-laws told me to be a man

You can email The Moneyist with any financial and ethical questions at qfottrell@marketwatch.com, and follow Quentin Fottrell on X, the platform formerly known as Twitter.

The Moneyist regrets he cannot reply to questions individually.

More columns from Quentin Fottrell:

'It is hard to watch them buy a Mercedes': My father left $600K to my stepmother. Her family put the money in a trust. Is my inheritance lost?

'They are as different as day and night': My son is upset that his brother got more financial support. Now it's payback time. What should I do?

'I want to enjoy the time we have left': I'm 68 and own 6 homes worth $1.8 million. I have $700K in a 401(k). Should I withdraw it?

Check out The Moneyist's private Facebook group, where members help answer life's thorniest money issues. Post your questions, or weigh in on the latest Moneyist columns.

By emailing your questions to The Moneyist or posting your dilemmas on The Moneyist Facebook group, you agree to have them published anonymously on MarketWatch.

By submitting your story to Dow Jones & Co., the publisher of MarketWatch, you understand and agree that we may use your story, or versions of it, in all media and platforms, including via third parties.

-Quentin Fottrell

This content was created by MarketWatch, which is operated by Dow Jones & Co. MarketWatch is published independently from Dow Jones Newswires and The Wall Street Journal.

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

02-12-25 0517ET

Copyright (c) 2025 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

[morningstar](https://www.morningstar.com/news/marketwatch/20250212186/im-a-wife-and-mother-can-i-secretly-change-my-will-and-leave-everything-to-my-daughter-instead-of-my-husband)
