---
title: "Honda Motor's Revenue for First Nine Months of Fiscal Year Rises 8.9%"
date: "2025-02-13 15:50:52"
summary: "By Ronnie Harui Honda Motor's revenue for the first nine months of its fiscal year rose 8.9% from a year earlier, mainly owing to higher revenue from its motorcycle business and supportive foreign-exchange effects. The Japanese automaker said Thursday that revenue rose to 16.33 trillion yen, equivalent to $105.75 billion,..."
categories:
  - "morningstar"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "morningstar"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Ronnie Harui

Honda Motor's revenue for the first nine months of its fiscal year rose 8.9% from a year earlier, mainly owing to higher revenue from its motorcycle business and supportive foreign-exchange effects.

The Japanese automaker said Thursday that revenue rose to 16.33 trillion yen, equivalent to $105.75 billion, for the nine months ended Dec. 31, from Y15.00 trillion in the same period a year earlier.

However, net profit fell to Y805.26 billion from Y869.61 billion. The automaker said that profit before income taxes dropped to Y1.23 trillion from Y1.26 trillion, primarily due to a decreased share of profit from investments.

For the nine months ended Dec. 31, Honda Motor's sales of motorcycles rose to 15,508,000 units from 13,961,00 units for the same period a year earlier. But sales of automobiles fell to 2,817,000 units from 3,114,000 units.

Honda Motor revised some of its earnings guidance for the fiscal year ending March 31, 2025. It guided for revenue of Y21.60 trillion yen this fiscal year, up by Y600 billion from its previous forecast. It also guided for profit before income taxes of Y1.465 trillion, up by Y30 billion. However, it guided for operating margin to fall 0.2 percentage points to 6.6%.

The automaker now expects to sell 3.75 million autos this fiscal year, down from 3.8 million units forecast previously, mainly reflecting a decrease in Japan-based sales. It also expects to sell 20.60 million motorcycles, up from 20.20 million units projected previously.

Write to Ronnie Harui at ronnie.harui@wsj.com

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

February 13, 2025 02:39 ET (07:39 GMT)

Copyright (c) 2025 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

[morningstar](https://www.morningstar.com/news/dow-jones/202502133678/honda-motors-revenue-for-first-nine-months-of-fiscal-year-rises-89)
