---
title: "North American Morning Briefing: Stock Futures -2-"
date: "2025-02-10 19:40:55"
summary: "ASA Gold &amp; Precious Metals Ltd (ASA) is expected to report for 4Q. Alexander's Inc (ALX) is expected to report for 4Q. Amkor Technology Inc (AMKR) is expected to report $0.37 for 4Q. Apollo Commercial Real Estate Finance Inc (ARI) is expected to report $0.18 for 4Q. Arrowhead Pharmaceuticals Corp..."
categories:
  - "morningstar"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "morningstar"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

ASA Gold & Precious Metals Ltd (ASA) is expected to report for 4Q.

Alexander's Inc (ALX) is expected to report for 4Q.

Amkor Technology Inc (AMKR) is expected to report $0.37 for 4Q.

Apollo Commercial Real Estate Finance Inc (ARI) is expected to report $0.18 for 4Q.

Arrowhead Pharmaceuticals Corp (ARWR) is expected to report $-1.01 for 1Q.

Barnwell Industries Inc (BRN) is expected to report for 1Q.

Beasley Broadcast Group Inc (BBGI) is expected to report for 4Q.

Buckle Inc (BKE) is expected to report.

CBL & Associates Properties Inc (CBL) is expected to report for 4Q.

CNA Financial Corp (CNA) is expected to report $0.15 for 4Q.

CSP Inc (CSPI) is expected to report for 1Q.

ChampionX Corp (CHX) is expected to report $0.43 for 4Q.

Cincinnati Financial Corp (CINF) is expected to report $1.98 for 4Q.

Columbus McKinnon Corp (CMCO) is expected to report $0.12 for 3Q.

Edgewell Personal Care Co (EPC) is expected to report $0.06 for 1Q.

Franklin Resources Inc (BEN) is expected to report.

GAMCO Investors Inc (GAMI) is expected to report for 4Q.

GCM Grosvenor Inc (GCMG) is expected to report $0.23 for 4Q.

Hain Celestial Group Inc (HAIN) is expected to report $0.11 for 2Q.

Harmonic Inc (HLIT) is expected to report $0.29 for 4Q.

Incyte Corp (INCY) is expected to report $1.22 for 4Q.

Insperity Inc (NSP) is expected to report $-0.23 for 4Q.

Inspire Medical Systems Inc (INSP) is expected to report $0.72 for 4Q.

Intevac Inc (IVAC) is expected to report $-0.21 for 4Q.

Ispire Technology Inc (ISPR) is expected to report $-0.07 for 2Q.

Kilroy Realty Corp (KRC) is expected to report $0.32 for 4Q.

Loews Corp (L) is expected to report $0.72 for 4Q.

McDonald's Corp (MCD) is expected to report $2.84 for 4Q.

Motorcar Parts of America Inc (MPAA) is expected to report $-0.23 for 3Q.

ON Semiconductor Corp (ON) is expected to report $0.92 for 4Q.

PennantPark Floating Rate Capital Ltd (PFLT) is expected to report $0.33 for 1Q.

PowerFleet Inc (AIOT) is expected to report $0.01 for 3Q.

RGC Resources Inc (RGCO) is expected to report $0.48 for 1Q.

Rockwell Automation Inc (ROK) is expected to report $1.42 for 1Q.

Simpson Manufacturing Co (SSD) is expected to report $1.27 for 4Q.

Sphere Entertainment Co (SPHR) is expected to report $-1.73 for 2Q.

Trio-Tech International (TRT) is expected to report for 2Q.

Triumph Group Inc (TGI) is expected to report $0.19 for 3Q.

Unitil Corp (UTL) is expected to report $1.53 for 4Q.

Vertex Pharmaceuticals Inc (VRTX) is expected to report $3.58 for 4Q.

Powered by Kantar Media and Dow Jones.

```
   
 
 
```

ANALYST RATINGS ACTIONS

Air Products & Chemicals Cut to Neutral From Overweight by JP Morgan

Altus Power Cut to Neutral From Buy by B. Riley Securities

American Fincl Group Cut to Market Perform From Outperform by Keefe, Bruyette & Woods

Beacon Roofing Supply Cut to Hold From Buy by Stifel

Deckers Outdoor Raised to Buy From Neutral by Citigroup

Denny's Raised to Outperform From Neutral by Wedbush

Doximity Raised to Outperform From Market Perform by Leerink Partners

elf Beauty Cut to Equal-Weight From Overweight by Morgan Stanley

elf Beauty Cut to Neutral From Buy by DA Davidson

elf Beauty Cut to Neutral From Buy by UBS

First Bancorp NC Cut to Neutral From Buy by Janney Montgomery Scott

FMC Corporation Cut to Neutral From Buy by UBS

Hershey Raised to Neutral From Sell by Citigroup

Honeywell Intl Raised to Buy From Hold by Deutsche Bank

Nevro Raised to Neutral From Underweight by Piper Sandler

News Corp Upgraded to Overweight from Neutral by Barrenjoey

Nike Cut to Neutral From Buy by Citigroup

Pagaya Technologies Raised to Buy From Neutral by Citigroup

Paycor HCM Cut to Neutral From Outperform by Baird

PepsiCo Cut to Market Perform From Outperform by CICC

Performance Food Group Cut to Neutral From Overweight by Piper Sandler

Pinterest Raised to Buy From Hold by Benchmark

Selective Insurance Cut to Market Perform From Outperform by Keefe, Bruyette & Woods

Spectrum Brands Raised to Buy From Hold by Canaccord Genuity

Spectrum Brands Raised to Outperform From Neutral by Wedbush

Sunnova Energy Intl Cut to Hold From Buy by Jefferies

TransDigm Raised to Overweight From Equal-Weight by Wells Fargo

WEX Cut to Market Perform From Outperform by William Blair

This article is a text version of a Wall Street Journal newsletter published earlier today.

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

February 10, 2025 06:26 ET (11:26 GMT)

Copyright (c) 2025 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

[morningstar](https://www.morningstar.com/news/dow-jones/202502103211/north-american-morning-briefing-stock-futures-2)
