---
title: "Cisco is basking in its AI moment as earnings show further pickup in demand"
date: "2025-02-13 09:31:02"
summary: "By Emily Bary Cisco's stock is rising as latest results illustrate how the company has been cashing in on hyperscale AI buildouts Cisco Systems Inc.'s growth continues to pick up, and the company is giving a rosy view of what lies ahead. The networking company saw its fourth consecutive quarter..."
categories:
  - "morningstar"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "morningstar"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Emily Bary

Cisco's stock is rising as latest results illustrate how the company has been cashing in on hyperscale AI buildouts

Cisco Systems Inc.'s growth continues to pick up, and the company is giving a rosy view of what lies ahead.

The networking company saw its fourth consecutive quarter of accelerating growth in product orders as it posted 29% growth on the metric for the January quarter. Splunk is helping to drive that momentum, and Cisco (CSCO) said Wednesday that order growth would have been 11% if excluding contributions from the Splunk business, which the company acquired last March.

"Cisco's strong quarterly results were driven by accelerating customer demand for our technology," Chief Executive Chuck Robbins said in a release. He added that Cisco is in a good spot "as AI becomes more pervasive."

While the company's AI traction has mainly been driven by hyperscale cloud buildouts recently, there is more opportunity as enterprises look to bolster their infrastructure for the AI era.

See also: Intel's stock is on a run not seen in more than two decades

AI infrastructure orders totaled more than $350 million in the latest quarter and about $700 million over the past two quarters. The company's security business also stands to benefit from the AI wave and Cisco rolled out new product offerings to address the opportunity there.

Cisco's stock rose 6.6% in Wednesday's after-hours trading.

The company saw upbeat revenue growth in the January quarter as it turned in $14.0 billion in sales, up 9% from a year before. Analysts tracked by FactSet were projecting $13.9 billion.

Cisco's sales outlook for the April quarter also topped expectations. Cisco models $13.9 billion to $14.1 billion, whereas the FactSet consensus was for just shy of $13.9 billion. The company's forecast for adjusted earnings per share calls for 90 cents to 92 cents, while analysts had been looking for 90 cents.

Splunk has become accretive to adjusted earnings per share earlier than expected, Chief Financial Officer Scott Herren said in the release. It helped contribute to the 94 cents in adjusted earnings per share that Cisco posted on the whole for the January quarter. That was above analysts' 91-cent average estimate.

Cisco is boosting its quarterly dividend by 3% to 41 cents a share. That lifts its implied yield to 2.63% from 2.56%.

The company is boosting its buyback authorization by $15 billion, bringing its total remaining authorization to roughly $17 billion, with no fixed end date.

-Emily Bary

This content was created by MarketWatch, which is operated by Dow Jones & Co. MarketWatch is published independently from Dow Jones Newswires and The Wall Street Journal.

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

02-12-25 2015ET

Copyright (c) 2025 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

[morningstar](https://www.morningstar.com/news/marketwatch/20250212643/cisco-is-basking-in-its-ai-moment-as-earnings-show-further-pickup-in-demand)
