---
title: "Upstart's stock is skyrocketing. Here's the biggest positive from earnings."
date: "2025-02-12 09:30:58"
summary: "By Emily Bary Upstart was close to achieving profitability in the fourth quarter and expects to 'at least' break even this year. That could broaden the stock's appeal. There were a lot of high points in Upstart Holdings Inc.'s latest earnings, including upbeat revenue, better-than-expected guidance and a higher conversion..."
categories:
  - "morningstar"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "morningstar"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Emily Bary

Upstart was close to achieving profitability in the fourth quarter and expects to 'at least' break even this year. That could broaden the stock's appeal.

There were a lot of high points in Upstart Holdings Inc.'s latest earnings, including upbeat revenue, better-than-expected guidance and a higher conversion rate on loan requests.

But perhaps the most notable highlight is that Upstart (UPST) "came within a whisker of returning to GAAP profitability," in the words of Chief Executive Dave Girouard. The company, which uses artificial intelligence to inform lending decisions, posted a fourth-quarter loss of $2.8 million, or 3 cents a share, on Tuesday.

Further, the company expect to "at least" break even in terms of its GAAP net income for 2025. That "opens the door to a new cohort of large investors," according to Mizuho analyst Dan Dolev.

Upstart last turned an annual GAAP profit in 2021.

Shares of the lending company soared 26% in Tuesday's after-hours trading.

The company expects first-quarter revenue of about $200 million, whereas analysts tracked by FactSet were expecting $184.6 million. Upstart also expects adjusted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization of $27 million, while analysts had been modeling $9 million.

Upstart's 2025 revenue outlook exceeded the consensus view by a wide margin. The company expects about $1 billion in revenue, while analysts were projecting $823 million. If Upstart hits its guidance, it would see its best annual revenue performance since going public in late 2020.

For the latest quarter, Upstart turned in revenue of $219 million, up 56% from a year before and above the FactSet consensus, which was for $181.9 million. The company saw more than 245,000 loans originated, with a higher conversion rate on requests relative to the same period a year prior.

Girouard said in a release that the company "grew dramatically across all product categories."

Read: How Visa and other fintech stocks can get a boost from AI

Shares of Upstart have been on a recent hot streak, nearly doubling over the past six months. But they're still down 83% from their all-time closing high of $390 set in October 2021.

Upstart was once a market darling, but its revenue is well down from peak levels. The company has seen less robust demand for its loans due to higher rates relative to several years ago, though it returned to growth in 2024 and is forecast to see greater momentum in the coming years.

The shares tend to swing wildly around earnings, rising around 40% following each of the prior two reports. The stock saw some dramatic negative post-earnings swings before that.

See also: 20 fintech companies expected to grow rapidly through 2026, including Upstart

-Emily Bary

This content was created by MarketWatch, which is operated by Dow Jones & Co. MarketWatch is published independently from Dow Jones Newswires and The Wall Street Journal.

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

02-11-25 2013ET

Copyright (c) 2025 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

[morningstar](https://www.morningstar.com/news/marketwatch/20250211367/upstarts-stock-is-skyrocketing-heres-the-biggest-positive-from-earnings)
