---
title: "TikTok returns to Apple and Google app stores. Here's why that's a risky move."
date: "2025-02-14 12:30:56"
summary: "By Mike Murphy TikTok was restored to app stores run by Apple Inc. and Alphabet Inc. on Thursday, after the tech giants were reportedly reassured by the Trump administration that they would not face legal ramifications for doing so. The popular video-sharing app had been removed from Apple's (AAPL) App..."
categories:
  - "morningstar"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "morningstar"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Mike Murphy

TikTok was restored to app stores run by Apple Inc. and Alphabet Inc. on Thursday, after the tech giants were reportedly reassured by the Trump administration that they would not face legal ramifications for doing so.

The popular video-sharing app had been removed from Apple's (AAPL) App Store and Alphabet's (GOOG) (GOOGL) Google Play store as a law banning it in the U.S. took effect Jan. 19. On his first day in office, President Donald Trump issued an executive order delaying enforcement of the law. Still, the tech giants kept TikTok out of their app stores since the law was still on the books.

On Thursday, Bloomberg News and the Wall Street Journal reported that U.S. Attorney General Pam Bondi issued a letter assuring that the Justice Department will not enforce the ban.

That's good news for TikTok and its parent company, Chinese-controlled ByteDance, as the app can resume its growth path. While the ban did not affect the roughly 170 million U.S. users who had already downloaded it, it denied potential new users from getting it.

The move is not without significant risk for Apple and Alphabet, though. Regardless of executive order, the ban is still law, until it's repealed by Congress. And under the law, companies who violate the ban are subject to fines of $5,000 per user, potentially adding up to hundreds of billions of dollars in fines.

And regardless of any assurances, if Trump changes his mind, the tech giants could suddenly find themselves in legal jeopardy.

Trump's non-enforcement order is effective until early April, and while he may extend it, Apple and Alphabet could face another decision of whether to pull the app again if it expires.

The penalty also has a five-year statute of limitations, so they could potentially face repercussions under a new presidential administration in 2029.

Neither Apple nor Google immediately responded to requests for comment.

The ban would become a moot point if ByteDance sells TikTok's U.S. operations to an American company. A number of tech companies have reportedly expressed interest, including Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) and Perplexity AI. Trump has also said that a new U.S. sovereign-wealth fund, which he intends to create, could take a significant stake in TikTok.

Apple and Google are also trying to stay in favor with the Trump administration; both face antitrust lawsuits from the federal government, and both could be deeply affected by tariffs.

Apple Chief Executive donated $1 million to Trump's inauguration committee. Google also donated $1 million, and recently dropped its diversity-hiring goals that Trump has opposed.

-Mike Murphy

This content was created by MarketWatch, which is operated by Dow Jones & Co. MarketWatch is published independently from Dow Jones Newswires and The Wall Street Journal.

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

02-13-25 2324ET

Copyright (c) 2025 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

[morningstar](https://www.morningstar.com/news/marketwatch/20250213625/tiktok-returns-to-apple-and-google-app-stores-heres-why-thats-a-risky-move)
