---
title: "Orange Revenue Falls But Key Earnings Metric Returns to Growth in France"
date: "2025-02-13 15:40:48"
summary: "By Najat Kantouar Orange reported lower revenue for the fourth quarter, but posted a return to growth in a key earnings metric in France for the year as a whole. The French telecommunications company posted a fall in fourth-quarter revenue to 10.43 billion euros, equivalent to $10.83 billion, from 11.58..."
categories:
  - "morningstar"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "morningstar"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Najat Kantouar

Orange reported lower revenue for the fourth quarter, but posted a return to growth in a key earnings metric in France for the year as a whole.

The French telecommunications company posted a fall in fourth-quarter revenue to 10.43 billion euros, equivalent to $10.83 billion, from 11.58 billion euros for the same period a year earlier. This slightly missed company-compiled consensus of 10.47 billion euros. However, for the full year, revenue rose 1.2% to 40.26 billion euros.

Africa and the Middle East revenue rose by 13% in the fourth quarter, boosted by continued rapid growth in retail services. However, revenue in Europe fell by 2.3%, dragged by a sharp decline in wholesale services and other revenues. In France, revenue fell 0.6% as equipment sales fell 5.4%.

Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization and after leases--the company's preferred metric--rose 3.2% to 3.25 billion euros. Meanwhile, for the full year, France returned to Ebitdaal growth.

Looking ahead, Orange expects Ebitdaal growth of around 3% in 2025. The group also anticipates organic cash flow from telecom activities of at least 3.6 billion euros compared with an earlier expectation of 3.5 billion euros.

Write to Najat Kantouar at najat.kantouar@wsj.com

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

February 13, 2025 02:24 ET (07:24 GMT)

Copyright (c) 2025 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

[morningstar](https://www.morningstar.com/news/dow-jones/202502133346/orange-revenue-falls-but-key-earnings-metric-returns-to-growth-in-france)
