---
title: "'I want to enjoy the time we have left': I'm 68 and plan to work passed retirement age. Should I empty my $700K 401(k)?"
date: "2025-02-13 21:10:51"
summary: "By Quentin Fottrell 'I have $1.8 million equity in my homes, including my main residence' Dear Quentin, I am a 68-year-old woman married to a 75-year-old man. I've been working past my full retirement age, and plan to quit soon. I earn $3,680 a month. Between Social Security, pension and..."
categories:
  - "morningstar"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "morningstar"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Quentin Fottrell

'I have $1.8 million equity in my homes, including my main residence'

Dear Quentin,

I am a 68-year-old woman married to a 75-year-old man.

I've been working past my full retirement age, and plan to quit soon. I earn $3,680 a month. Between Social Security, pension and rental properties, I bring in about $7,000 a month after taxes and repairs. I have about $700,000 in a 401(k), mostly pre-tax, and I have $1.8 million equity in my homes, including my main residence.

I own six houses, and three of my homes are paid off. If I quit, how much can I withdraw from my 401(k) accounts? I plan to keep the houses, but if I outlive my 401(k), they can be sold off for more cash. My husband and I have both had cancer twice, and have other health problems. I want to enjoy the time we have left, without going crazy.

Retiree

Related: 'I've no interest in investing more money in the stock market': I'm debt-free, retired and ignoring the 'Trump bump.' What should I do with $400,000?

Dear Retiree,

This is a problem millions of Americans would give their two front teeth - and probably a few of their molars - to have.

If you want more free time to spend with your husband, you have a few choices: You can give up work and sell some of your investment properties, or continue to live off the income if you can both survive comfortably on your monthly income. A conversation with your husband and a financial adviser will help you decide. You have multiple sources of income, so if you give up one you need to have a plan, at least for the next 20-plus years.

Using the 4% rule, whereby you withdraw 4% or $28,000 before tax from your 401(k) each year, you would have around 25 years of income. If you withdrew a lump sum, you would of course pay a higher income tax on that amount, so it would be better to stagger the withdrawals, if possible. You would also have to pay capital gains tax on profit on the sale of your real estate, so you would need to weigh up the value of the monthly rent with receiving a lump sum.

This is the time to start planning because you will have to make required minimum distributions (RMDs) from your 401(k) when you reach the age of 73, if you're no longer working at that time. Those who own a workplace retirement plan like a 401(k) are permitted to delay taking their RMDs until the year they retire, unless they're a 5% owner of the business sponsoring the plan, according to the Internal Revenue Service.

You have multiple sources of income, so if you give up one you need to have a plan, at least for the next 20-plus years.

As of this year, RMDs only apply to traditional 401(k)s and IRAs like yours. "You can potentially convert a traditional or Roth 401(k) to a Roth IRA (or roll over some of the money into a Roth IRA to avoid or lower your RMDs," according to Prudential Financial. "However, because withdrawals from traditional accounts are taxed differently than withdrawals from Roth accounts, you could end up with a big tax bill when you convert."

"Once you're retired, you can time your first RMD to avoid making two taxable withdrawals in the same tax year," Prudential adds. "Your first RMD must happen by April 1 of the year after the year you turn 73; your second RMD must happen by Dec. 31 of that same year. To keep those two RMDs in separate tax years, you don't have to wait until the following year - let alone April 1 - to take that first distribution. Instead, you can take it anytime during the year you hit 73."

It does not seem like you will be in a higher tax bracket after 73 and you successfully avoided a situation where you had to make withdrawals before 59 1/2 and, thereby, you avoided a penalty. However, by taking out just enough money to stay in your current tax bracket, you can lower the taxable income that will be subject to RMDs later on, Prudential adds. "If you're still working after 73, you can usually delay distributions, but only from your current workplace plan."

You have that sometimes rare luxury in life: choices. You own six homes, most of which give you some kind of passive income. (Although being a landlord can also be a lot of work.) Just over 66% of Americans own their own home, according to the Federal Reserve; that homeownership rate has barely budged since 1960. And just over 50% of Americans own stocks. It's time to make small changes to give yourself and your husband more time together.

Related: 'I'm a mother in turmoil': My daughter refuses to see me. She says I didn't do anything wrong - or right. I have 5 kids. Do I cut her out of my will?

You can email The Moneyist with any financial and ethical questions at qfottrell@marketwatch.com, and follow Quentin Fottrell on X, the platform formerly known as Twitter.

The Moneyist regrets he cannot respond to letters individually.

More columns from Quentin Fottrell:

'My father was a teetotaling, fair-minded, liberal-leaning capitalist': And yet I allowed 'friends' to borrow $120K. How do I deal with the fallout?

'I handle my dad's finances': My father is in a nursing home and will get $100K in compensation. What should I do with it?

'I can't deal with managing them': I juggle 18 credit cards. How do I close them without ruining my credit score?

Check out The Moneyist's private Facebook group, where members help answer life's thorniest money issues. Post your questions, or weigh in on the latest Moneyist columns.

By emailing your questions to The Moneyist or posting your dilemmas on The Moneyist Facebook group, you agree to have them published anonymously on MarketWatch.

By submitting your story to Dow Jones & Co., the publisher of MarketWatch, you understand and agree that we may use your story, or versions of it, in all media and platforms, including via third parties.

-Quentin Fottrell

This content was created by MarketWatch, which is operated by Dow Jones & Co. MarketWatch is published independently from Dow Jones Newswires and The Wall Street Journal.

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

02-13-25 0807ET

Copyright (c) 2025 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

[morningstar](https://www.morningstar.com/news/marketwatch/20250213217/i-want-to-enjoy-the-time-we-have-left-im-68-and-plan-to-work-passed-retirement-age-should-i-empty-my-700k-401k)
