---
title: "My mother did not receive Social Security after my father died. Could a new law change that?"
date: "2025-02-09 21:20:47"
summary: "By Alessandra Malito 'My mom has always been a school teacher and never paid into Social Security' Dear Help Me Retire, My dad always paid into Social Security but later in life after getting laid off, he started bus driving for the school system and then got hired as a..."
categories:
  - "morningstar"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "morningstar"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Alessandra Malito

'My mom has always been a school teacher and never paid into Social Security'

Dear Help Me Retire,

My dad always paid into Social Security but later in life after getting laid off, he started bus driving for the school system and then got hired as a paraprofessional.

My dad was diagnosed with cancer and died in 2010. He had worked for the school district for 10 years, which meant he could no longer draw Social Security. He could only get his retirement income from the school system.

My mom has always been a school teacher and never paid into Social Security. With the new law changing where public employees can still draw their Social Security, do you think I can get my dad's death benefit for my mom and, if so, how would I even go about it?

Saving Mom's Social Security

Related: Is it too late for a Roth? My husband has just retired, but I'll work for another 10 years.

Dear Saving,

I'm so glad to see you're on top of the law and how it could positively impact your mom's retirement. That's really wonderful and your mom is lucky to have you.

I just want to clarify what you mean by death benefit, because it could be interpreted a few ways. The first that comes to my mind is the $255 one-time lump sum Social Security might pay out to a survivor (usually a spouse, sometimes children depending on the circumstances). This must be done within two years of the individual dying, so I'm not sure your mom would be eligible to receive that.

There's also a lot the Social Security Administration is still calculating in regards to the Social Security Fairness Act that recently passed, so they may provide more guidance as they wade through the details.

Now if you mean survivor benefits, that's a different story, and it is very possible your mom will be able to get Social Security benefits now that the law was passed.

Do you have questions about retirement, Social Security, where to live or how to afford it at all? We want to hear from you. Join the conversation in our Facebook community: Retire Better with MarketWatch.

Here's a simple recap of what happened for those who may not be aware. Before leaving office, President Biden signed into law the Social Security Fairness Act, which eliminated two previous provisions that reduced beneficiaries' Social Security income: the Windfall Elimination Provision, which affected individuals' own retirement benefits, and the Government Pension Offset, which was tied to spousal or survivor benefits.

Some beneficiaries saw half of their Social Security benefits slashed as a result of these benefits, or maybe didn't get anything at all (as you have seen from personal experience).

The Social Security Administration is now working on adjusting all of those benefits for the 3 million or more people impacted, and it said in an update on its website it could take more than a year until people start to see the perk. On top of adjusting monthly benefits, the law included a retroactive date, meaning beneficiaries are getting a year's worth of backpay on top of the change to their current benefits.

Individuals who never claimed Social Security because they were ineligible, or thought they wouldn't get anything thanks to those two previous provisions, will have to apply for benefits in order for the agency to start sending those checks out.

If your dad was eligible for Social Security benefits but didn't get anything because of the Windfall Elimination Provision (and the same for your mom not receiving any spousal or survivor benefit because of the Government Pension Offset Provision), she could be entitled to benefits.

Here's more information on how to apply - if she's never tried claiming, now is the time.

By submitting your story to Dow Jones & Co., the publisher of MarketWatch, you understand and agree that we may use your story, or versions of it, in all media and platforms, including via third parties.

Have a question about your own retirement savings? Email us at HelpMeRetire@marketwatch.com

-Alessandra Malito

This content was created by MarketWatch, which is operated by Dow Jones & Co. MarketWatch is published independently from Dow Jones Newswires and The Wall Street Journal.

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

02-09-25 0805ET

Copyright (c) 2025 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

[morningstar](https://www.morningstar.com/news/marketwatch/20250209160/my-mother-did-not-receive-social-security-after-my-father-died-could-a-new-law-change-that)
