---
title: "Here's what junk bonds are saying now about the value of Treasury bonds"
date: "2025-02-09 05:40:47"
summary: "By Mark Hulbert High-yield bond holders aren't asking for much of a premium above ultra-safe U.S. Treasurys. Time to own quality. Junk-bond investors are giving zero odds to a global trade war. They are almost certainly wrong, since even if a trade war is avoided, the odds are not zero...."
categories:
  - "morningstar"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "morningstar"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Mark Hulbert

High-yield bond holders aren't asking for much of a premium above ultra-safe U.S. Treasurys. Time to own quality.

Junk-bond investors are giving zero odds to a global trade war. They are almost certainly wrong, since even if a trade war is avoided, the odds are not zero.

Consider the junk-bond spread, which is the additional yield above ultra-safe U.S. Treasury bonds that investors demand for incurring the risk of high-yield, or "junk" bonds. Nowadays they're not asking for much, and that isn't a good sign.

In fact, the last time the junk-bond spread was as low as it is now was in the summer of 2007, just before the Global Financial Crisis. What happened next? Treasury yields plunged while junk yields soared.

The chart below plots the junk-bond spread over the past three decades. Not only do you have to go back to 2007 to find the spread as low as it is now, the current spread is about half of the three-decade average.

Today's low spread would be a worry even if a global trade war weren't a distinct possibility. Far more often than not over the past three decades, junk spreads that were especially low were higher 12- and 24 months later. Conversely, high spreads were lower. This reversal tendency is statistically significant at the 95% confidence level that statisticians often use when determining if a pattern is genuine.

This pattern is summarized in the table above. To construct it, I focused first on the 20% of months since 1997 with the lowest junk-bond spreads, and contrasted that group's experience with that of the quintile of months with the highest junk spreads. Low spreads on average are followed by higher spreads over the subsequent one- and two-year periods - and vice versa.

The current junk spread, at 2.73%, is not just in the lowest quintile - it is lower than 97% of all monthly readings since 1997.

In theory at least, there is more than one way in which the junk spread could widen in coming months. Junk-bond yields could rise while Treasury yields stay constant, for example, or junk yields could stay steady and Treasurys yields fall. But during periods of economic weakness, it is almost always the case that the junk spread widens by both yields moving in opposite directions - junk yields rising and Treasurys falling.

Bond investors would do well to favor Treasurys over junk bonds right now. There's also a market-neutral way of betting on the junk-spread widening: Create a long position in Treasurys while shorting an equal dollar amount of junk bonds.

The junk-bond ETF with the most assets under management is the iShares Broad High Yield Corporate Bond ETF USHY, with $18.6 billion in assets under management (AUM) and a 0.08% expense ratio. Since the average maturity of its bonds is around five years, according to investment researcher Morningstar, when shorting it you would pair it with a U.S. Treasury ETF with similar average maturity. The intermediate-term Treasury ETF with the most assets under management is the Vanguard Intermediate Term Treasury ETF VGIT, with $30.7 billion in AUM and a 0.04% expense ratio.

Mark Hulbert is a regular contributor to MarketWatch. His Hulbert Ratings tracks investment newsletters that pay a flat fee to be audited. He can be reached at mark@hulbertratings.com

More: The bond market is signaling two things about Trump's second term

Plus: Investors shake off trade-war fears, but wonder how long the calm will last

-Mark Hulbert

This content was created by MarketWatch, which is operated by Dow Jones & Co. MarketWatch is published independently from Dow Jones Newswires and The Wall Street Journal.

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

02-08-25 1629ET

Copyright (c) 2025 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

[morningstar](https://www.morningstar.com/news/marketwatch/20250208204/heres-what-junk-bonds-are-saying-now-about-the-value-of-treasury-bonds)
