---
title: "Bank of Canada Appoints Michelle Alexopoulos as 2nd External Deputy Governor — Update"
date: "2025-02-12 01:25:51"
summary: "By Paul Vieira OTTAWA--The Bank of Canada on Tuesday appointed a University of Toronto economics professor as a second external deputy governor, bringing the membership on the central bank's governing council to seven. Michelle Alexopoulos will serve in a part-time capacity for a two-year term, the central bank said. The..."
categories:
  - "morningstar"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "morningstar"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Paul Vieira

OTTAWA--The Bank of Canada on Tuesday appointed a University of Toronto economics professor as a second external deputy governor, bringing the membership on the central bank's governing council to seven.

Michelle Alexopoulos will serve in a part-time capacity for a two-year term, the central bank said. The bank created an external deputy governor position in 2023 to introduce new perspectives to the governing council, which is tasked with deciding on rate policy. Last year, the central bank said it was establishing a second external deputy governor position.

Nicolas Vincent, a professor at HEC Montreal, was named the first external deputy governor in 2023, and has subsequently had his term extended for another three years.

Alexopoulos is a graduate of the University of Toronto, received her doctorate in economics from Northwestern University, and is a past president of the Canadian Economics Association. Her biography says her research primarily focuses on business cycles, monetary policy, economic uncertainty and productivity.

In the past, she has defended the central bank's inflation-targeting framework, voicing skepticism about adopting changes such as a dual inflation-and-employment mandate like the Federal Reserve. "If we are going to leave the status quo, we need to have something that we truly believe is going to outperform it. Our status quo has performed remarkably well in stabilizing inflation expectations," she said in 2021.

Last fall, she co-authored a piece, published by the Toronto think tank C.D. Howe Institute, about the urgent need for Canadian lawmakers to eliminate internal trade barriers that thwart commerce and labor mobility among the country's 10 provinces and three territories. Alexopoulos and the co-authors, citing previous studies, said removing the internal trade barriers may lift Canada's gross domestic product by 4% to 7%.

Write to Paul Vieira at paul.vieira@wsj.com

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

February 11, 2025 12:08 ET (17:08 GMT)

Copyright (c) 2025 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

[morningstar](https://www.morningstar.com/news/dow-jones/202502118110/bank-of-canada-appoints-michelle-alexopoulos-as-2nd-external-deputy-governor-update)
