---
title: "GE Healthcare's business grows with boost from imaging and diagnostic drug units"
date: "2025-02-14 00:10:48"
summary: "By Steve Gelsi Medical-technology company's revenue falls slightly short of estimate, but adjusted profit beats target. GE Healthcare Technologies Inc. on Thursday topped analysts' expectations for adjusted profit as its business benefited from growth in its ultrasound imaging products and diagnostic drug products. GE Healthcare 's stock (GEHC) rose nearly..."
categories:
  - "morningstar"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "morningstar"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Steve Gelsi

Medical-technology company's revenue falls slightly short of estimate, but adjusted profit beats target.

GE Healthcare Technologies Inc. on Thursday topped analysts' expectations for adjusted profit as its business benefited from growth in its ultrasound imaging products and diagnostic drug products.

GE Healthcare 's stock (GEHC) rose nearly 8% as one of the top gainers among the components of the S&P 500 SPX.

The company said its fourth-quarter adjusted earnings rose to $1.45 a share from $1.18 a share in the year-ago period. The latest quarter's result topped the FactSet consensus estimate of $1.26 a share.

GE Healthcare's fourth-quarter revenue grew by 2% to $5.32 billion, compared with the analyst estimate of $5.33 billion, with contributions from the company's pharmaceutical-diagnostics and advanced-visualization-solutions units.

The company's net income margin increased to 13.5% in the fourth quarter, from versus 7.7% for the prior year, with the benefit of better productivity and volume.

"We were pleased with the strong momentum in orders, backlog and book-to-bill that we saw in the fourth quarter," Chief Executive Peter Arduini said in a prepared statement. "Customer interest in new, differentiated products contributed to orders growth and recurring revenue in the year."

For full-year 2025, GE Healthcare Technologies expects adjusted earnings of $4.61 a share to $4.75 a share, compared with the analyst estimate of $4.66 a share.

Including Thursday's moves, GE Healthcare stock has risen 18.4% in 2025, while the S&P 500 SPX has risen by 3.5%.

-Steve Gelsi

This content was created by MarketWatch, which is operated by Dow Jones & Co. MarketWatch is published independently from Dow Jones Newswires and The Wall Street Journal.

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

02-13-25 1058ET

Copyright (c) 2025 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

[morningstar](https://www.morningstar.com/news/marketwatch/20250213257/ge-healthcares-business-grows-with-boost-from-imaging-and-diagnostic-drug-units)
