---
title: "Unilever Picks Amsterdam Over London For Ice-Cream Unit's Primary Listing — 2nd Update"
date: "2025-02-13 18:40:46"
summary: "By Dominic Chopping Unilever chose Amsterdam over London and New York for the main listing of its demerged ice-cream business, ending months of speculation over how the company would move ahead with its plans to separate the business. After its spinoff, the unit that includes the Ben &amp; Jerry's, Magnum..."
categories:
  - "morningstar"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "morningstar"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Dominic Chopping

Unilever chose Amsterdam over London and New York for the main listing of its demerged ice-cream business, ending months of speculation over how the company would move ahead with its plans to separate the business.

After its spinoff, the unit that includes the Ben & Jerry's, Magnum and Wall's brands will remain headquartered in the Dutch capital and have secondary listings in the U.K. and U.S., Unilever said.

The consumer-goods giant outlined plans to carve out the business nearly a year ago as part of Chief Executive Hein Schumacher's plan to inject growth into the group by focusing on fewer things and concentrating on businesses that share manufacturing and distribution systems. Ice cream was singled out as it has a different operating model to the rest of the group.

Unilever's ice-cream business generated turnover of 8.3 billion euros, equivalent to $8.62 billion, in 2024, representing around 14% of total group turnover.

Ahead of the listing plans, analysts at Barclays had noted that a sale or joint venture of the ice-cream business would have been preferable, with proceeds returned in a sizeable buyback.

Shares were down 6.7% in morning European trade.

As part of the turnaround plan that includes the ice-cream spinoff, the company is also targeting cost savings of 800 million euros that includes shedding 7,500 jobs globally. It said Thursday that by the end of 2024, it had achieved 200 million euros of savings and cut 4,300 jobs.

"We are ahead of plan in helping to create a leaner and more accountable organization," Schumacher said.

Meanwhile, Unilever reported Thursday group underlying sales growth of 4.0% in the fourth quarter of last year as price rises remained moderate and shoppers continued buying more of the company's brands. The result was slightly lower than the 4.1% increase expected by analysts in a company-compiled consensus.

The consumer-goods industry as a whole is trying to move back to selling more goods after several years of high inflation resulted in growth coming from pricing. The likes of Unilever, Nestle and Danone all raised prices to pass on inflation-driven cost increases, but with inflation now under control, they are focusing on volume-led growth.

Unilever said the volume of goods sold in the fourth quarter rose 2.7%, shy of the 3.0% analysts had expected, while pricing increased 1.3% on the year. Analysts had expected prices to increase 1%.

Commodity costs are expected to rise this year, particularly for cocoa, dairy and palm oil, so the company expects pricing to increase through the year, which will result in a more balanced split in its sales growth between volume and price.

Sales growth in the fourth quarter was driven by the Americas, and its beauty & wellbeing business that includes Dove soap, Vaseline and Sunsilk shampoo. The unit also performed well in Europe, in addition to its personal-care business that houses Axe and Dove deodorants.

Emerging markets, which account for the largest share of Unilever's sales, suffered from continued weakness in China and Indonesia. Weak consumer sentiment in China saw all of the company's businesses struggle, apart from food. It recently appointed new leadership in the country as it switches product and strategic focus.

In Indonesia, where the company has faced issues from a boycott of western brands over the was in Gaza, it is continuing to adjust pricing and resetting stock levels, but the benefits of the changes in Indonesia and China aren't expected to be felt until the second half of 2025.

The company expects to report 2025 underlying sales growth within its typical range of 3% to 5%, but it cautioned that market growth at the start of the year will likely be subdued, before it accelerates during the year.

"Market growth, which slowed throughout 2024, is expected to remain soft in the first half of 2025," Schumacher said.

The underlying operating margin this year is expected to register a modest improvement from the 18.4% posted for 2024, Unilever said.

The company outlined a new 1.5 billion-euro share buyback and proposed a quarterly dividend of 45.28 European cents, up from 43.96 cents in the third quarter.

Write to Dominic Chopping at dominic.chopping@wsj.com

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

February 13, 2025 05:34 ET (10:34 GMT)

Copyright (c) 2025 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

[morningstar](https://www.morningstar.com/news/dow-jones/202502135237/unilever-picks-amsterdam-over-london-for-ice-cream-units-primary-listing-2nd-update)
