---
title: "European Midday Briefing: Stocks Little Moved -2-"
date: "2025-02-11 18:30:53"
summary: "\"It's a big deal. This is the beginning of making America rich again,\" Trump said in the Oval Office, as he signed dual executive orders for steel and aluminum tariffs. \"No exceptions, no nothing,\" Trump added. New Restraints at Education Department Jam Civil Rights Enforcement Civil rights enforcement at the..."
categories:
  - "morningstar"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "morningstar"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

"It's a big deal. This is the beginning of making America rich again," Trump said in the Oval Office, as he signed dual executive orders for steel and aluminum tariffs. "No exceptions, no nothing," Trump added.

```
   
 
 
```

New Restraints at Education Department Jam Civil Rights Enforcement

Civil rights enforcement at the U.S. Department of Education has slowed in recent weeks, with some staff in the office that handles cases being told they can't communicate externally, according to people within the agency.

The Office for Civil Rights is charged with enforcing bans on discrimination based on sex, race, age and disability status in schools and universities nationwide. Families can file a complaint if their child is, for instance, denied access to a school field trip because of a disability. Civil rights staffers normally communicate with schools and families to investigate and resolve complaints.

```
   
 
 
```

Write to gareth.mcpherson@wsj.com

Write to us at newsletters@dowjones.com

We offer an enhanced version of this briefing that is optimized for viewing on mobile devices and sent directly to your email inbox. If you would like to sign up, please go to https://newsplus.wsj.com/subscriptions.

This article is a text version of a Wall Street Journal newsletter published earlier today.

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

February 11, 2025 05:26 ET (10:26 GMT)

Copyright (c) 2025 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

[morningstar](https://www.morningstar.com/news/dow-jones/202502112393/european-midday-briefing-stocks-little-moved-2)
