---
title: "Humana says 2025 is critical for margin recovery as quarterly loss widens"
date: "2025-02-12 01:50:54"
summary: "By Ciara Linnane Health insurer expects to lose another 550,000 Medicare Advantage members this year Humana Inc.'s stock fell 5.6% Tuesday, after the health insurer and managed-care company's quarterly loss widened. The company offered guidance that lagged consensus by a wide margin and said it expects to lose another 550,000..."
categories:
  - "morningstar"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "morningstar"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Ciara Linnane

Health insurer expects to lose another 550,000 Medicare Advantage members this year

Humana Inc.'s stock fell 5.6% Tuesday, after the health insurer and managed-care company's quarterly loss widened. The company offered guidance that lagged consensus by a wide margin and said it expects to lose another 550,000 Medicare Advantage members in 2025.

Louisville, Ky.-based Humana (HUM) posted a net loss of $862 million, or $5.76 a share, for the quarter, wider than the loss of $591 million, or $4.42 a share, posted in the year-earlier period. Adjusted for one-time items, it had a loss per share of $2.16, while FactSet expected a loss of $2.21.

Revenue rose to $29.213 billion from $26.562 billion a year ago and was ahead of the $28.811 billion FactSet consensus.

The company said it expects individual Medicare Advantage annual membership to decline by about 550,000 in 2025, or by about 10% versus 2024, including its planned exit from certain unprofitable plans and counties.

That was more than the drop of a few hundred thousand it had expected when it reported third-quarter earnings in October.

Humana's stock sold off heavily ahead of those numbers, after the company disclosed that one of its key Medicare Advantage plans looked likely to have its government rating cut, which would reduce reimbursement rates.

The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services cut the 2025 star rating on Humana's H5216 plan to 3.5 stars from 4.5. The plan contains 45% of Humana's Medicare Advantage members.

"2025 represents a critical step on our margin expansion journey," Chief Executive Jim Rechtin said Tuesday in prepared comments.

But the path to achieving "compelling margins" is a multiyear process and will require investments in areas including stars, support for clinical excellence and operating efficiencies, among other measures, he said.

For now, he said, the company is expecting to invest "a few hundred million dollars" in those drivers.

Health insurers have come through a rough patch due to rising medical costs and changes to federal and state Medicaid programs stemming from eligibility redeterminations and footprint adjustments in certain states. The redetermination process is used by states to ensure that Medicaid enrollees are still eligible for coverage.

Participants in the company's Medicare Advantage plans are also still catching up on procedures that were delayed or deferred during the pandemic years, raising costs for insurers.

Humana backed its adjusted 2025 EPS guidance, which it has said would be "at least in line with 2024 results," or about $15.88. Adjusted EPS is expected to come to $16.25, while FactSet is expecting $16.71.

That guidance assumes revenue of $126 billion to $128 billion, or up about 8% at the midpoint.

The company said its benefit-expense ratio, also known as a medical-loss ratio - a measure of how much in premiums is spent on medical treatment versus administrative costs - stood at 91.5% at quarter's end, up from 90.7% a year ago.

The company is expecting its MLR to range from 90.1% to 90.5% in 2025.

Humana's bonds, meanwhile, were also selling off on Tuesday, continuing the trend over the past two weeks heading into earnings, suggesting caution about the numbers.

The following chart from data-solutions provider BondCliQ Inc. shows the movement, which came as spreads held steady.

The selling continued on Tuesday.

Humana has more than $13 billion worth of outstanding bonds, according to FactSet data, with $600 million of that total maturing this year.

The stock has fallen 27.9% in the last 12 months, while the S&P 500 SPX has gained 20.7%.

-Ciara Linnane

This content was created by MarketWatch, which is operated by Dow Jones & Co. MarketWatch is published independently from Dow Jones Newswires and The Wall Street Journal.

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

02-11-25 1242ET

Copyright (c) 2025 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

[morningstar](https://www.morningstar.com/news/marketwatch/2025021186/humana-says-2025-is-critical-for-margin-recovery-as-quarterly-loss-widens)
