---
title: "Intel's AI Chief to Part Ways With Chip Maker in Wake of CEO Exit"
date: "2025-02-10 18:16:00"
summary: "By Mauro Orru Intel's head of data-center and artificial-intelligence operations is leaving the group to take the helm of European telecommunication group Nokia, the latest high-profile departure at the chip maker as it struggles to revamp its business. Justin Hotard, who only joined Intel in February last year, will be..."
categories:
  - "morningstar"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "morningstar"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Mauro Orru

Intel's head of data-center and artificial-intelligence operations is leaving the group to take the helm of European telecommunication group Nokia, the latest high-profile departure at the chip maker as it struggles to revamp its business.

Justin Hotard, who only joined Intel in February last year, will be replacing Pekka Lundmark as Nokia's chief executive as of April 1. His departure means that Intel loses a seasoned executive with more than 25 years' experience at global technology companies.

Hotard previously served as executive vice president and general manager of high-performance computing, AI and labs at Hewlett Packard Enterprise. He led efforts at Intel to cash in on the technology.

However, the chip maker has lagged behind rivals like Nvidia in the AI race amid a costly turnaround strategy to begin manufacturing chips for other companies that ultimately wiped out $150 billion in market value. Intel stock is down more than 55% over the past 12 months.

Pat Gelsinger retired abruptly as Intel's CEO in December, capping a nearly four-year run that saw the chip maker fall behind rivals. The company named Chief Financial Officer David Zinsner and Michelle Johnston Holthaus, general manager of Intel's client computing group, as interim co-CEOs.

Write to Mauro Orru at mauro.orru@wsj.com

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

February 10, 2025 05:05 ET (10:05 GMT)

Copyright (c) 2025 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

[morningstar](https://www.morningstar.com/news/dow-jones/202502102467/intels-ai-chief-to-part-ways-with-chip-maker-in-wake-of-ceo-exit)
