---
title: "Thinking of making a statement by not paying your income taxes? This is what that could cost you."
date: "2025-02-13 20:20:49"
summary: "By Beth Pinsker The penalties and fees add up for tax protesters, with little impact to show for it This year's tax-filing season is off to a slow start, with the number of returns filed by taxpayers down by 14% in the first week. If this trend continues to the..."
categories:
  - "morningstar"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "morningstar"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Beth Pinsker

The penalties and fees add up for tax protesters, with little impact to show for it

This year's tax-filing season is off to a slow start, with the number of returns filed by taxpayers down by 14% in the first week. If this trend continues to the tax-filing deadline of April 15 that applies to most Americans, it could mean there are more taxpayers not filing this year for any number of reasons - they may be making a political protest or they could be lollygaggers waiting to see if the IRS is going to make it through the next few months intact.

Also: Federal judge blocks Elon Musk's 'DOGE' from accessing sensitive Treasury Department material

Most people pay their taxes year in and year out - a good 85% of them, according to the IRS. The agency has not released consistent reports on the amount of money not paid per year, or specifically why it wasn't paid, but one recent report pegged the 2021 "tax gap" as $688 billion.

In contrast, the U.S. collected nearly $5 trillion in revenue in the fiscal year 2024, about half of which was from income taxes. So while that's a lot that can go missing, it's still just a fraction of the overall amount, and recovering it wouldn't put that much of a dent in the $2 trillion federal budget deficit.

Nevertheless, the IRS doesn't like nonpayments. It may take some time, especially considering understaffing, but the U.S. tax system usually catches up with people. Then anyone who missed payments has to pay the back taxes owed, plus penalties, fees and interest.

From the archives (December 2024): Republicans succeed in clawing back more IRS tax-cheat enforcement funds. For now.

What could that cost an individual? According to an accountant consulted by MarketWatch, it would be a lot. To use round numbers, if you had $100,000 in adjusted gross income for 2025 and took the standard deduction, your tax liability would be roughly $13,620, given no other complications, like a child tax credit. If you didn't pay this and skipped filing, the underpayment penalty would be $571, plus a failure-to-pay penalty of up to $3,405, which represents 0.5% of the unpaid taxes - up to 25% of the tax due. Then you'd owe interest up to the time you pay the bill - which as of the first quarter of 2025 is charged at a 7% rate.

That's just for one year. Multiply that by two - or four, if you're considering protesting a presidential administration - and you would be looking at a big bill. The consequences could be different depending on your intent.

Tax professor Michele Frank, with the Farmer School of Business at Miami University, breaks tax nonpayers into three categories: people who make unintentional mistakes, tax evaders, and tax protesters or resisters. "Tax evaders, protesters and resisters face much harsher consequences," she said. "These groups face failure-to-file and failure-to-pay penalties up to three times higher than those that apply to honest mistakes. In addition, they could face hefty civil and criminal penalties and up to five years of jail time."

If you just get it wrong

Taxes are complicated, and there's some relief if you just don't do it right. Frank said IRS rules state that it may be willing to remove or reduce these penalties if a taxpayer acted in good faith and/or can show reasonable cause for an inability to meet tax obligations. Or the agency may work with you to set up a payment plan.

That's what happened when monologist Josh Kornbluth didn't pay his taxes for seven years. There seemed to be no consequences at first. He was freelancing and not paying attention. It eventually got very messy and expensive, but he lived to tell the tale. In fact, he made a documentary about it, called "Love & Taxes," detailing how he racked up $50,000 in debt to the U.S. government - before working out a deal to pay it back.

If you stop paying on purpose

The IRS doesn't have a "conscientious objector" type of exemption, not for political or religious reasons. The government expects you to pay tax on all your income as you earn it, which means that if you stopped paying all year and made it up at the end when you file your tax return, you'd technically be afoul of the pay-as-you-go requirement.

This is why companies take out withholding taxes from each paycheck, plus Social Security and Medicare taxes, which count as your future contributions to these programs. For a full-time employee paid through W-2 wages, it can actually be very difficult to stop withholding the income-tax portion. You'd have to go to your company's payroll portal and fill out a new W-4 form, mark yourself exempt and hope to escape the notice of automated system audits.

The same pay-as-you-go rules apply to freelance income, but it's functionally easier to skip payments on the front end. On the back end, however, the government receives a 1099 filing from any platform that pays an individual at least $600 in a year and will match the information to their return. If the amount you file doesn't match, the IRS could send you an underpayment bill.

"If you do not voluntarily file a tax return, but the IRS receives a W-2 or 1099 that shows you received taxable payments, it may file a substitute return for you," said Frank. "You are generally better off voluntarily filing, rather than having the IRS prepare a substitute return for you, because an IRS-prepared return will not include any of your additional exemptions or expenses."

Not paying tax, moreover, would be a drop in the bucket. When you look at the math, the person making $100,000 in adjusted gross income would be stiffing the government, temporarily, of $13,000 or so. It would take a lot of people to reach Boston Tea Party levels of impact. It would also take another year and a half before it would be apparent, since tax filings for 2025 are not due until April 2026.

"It would not serve any purpose, and it would only hurt the person," said Wes Battle, a certified financial planner based in Maryland. "Nobody in the government is going to cry about it."

Got a question about investing, how it fits into your overall financial plan and what strategies can help you make the most out of your money? You can write to me at beth.pinsker@marketwatch.com. Please put "Fix My Portfolio" in the subject line.

You can also join the Retirement conversation in our Facebook community: Retire Better with MarketWatch.

By submitting your story to Dow Jones & Co., the publisher of MarketWatch, you understand and agree that we may use your story, or versions of it, in all media and platforms, including via third parties.

More Fix My Portfolio

-- Why buyout offers - like Trump's to federal workers - are a hard sell for employees

-- This 401(k) fix could help workers save $300,000 more, so what's the holdup?

-- Don't ignore those 1099s. How to read your investment tax forms like a pro.

-Beth Pinsker

This content was created by MarketWatch, which is operated by Dow Jones & Co. MarketWatch is published independently from Dow Jones Newswires and The Wall Street Journal.

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

02-13-25 0713ET

Copyright (c) 2025 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

[morningstar](https://www.morningstar.com/news/marketwatch/20250213198/thinking-of-making-a-statement-by-not-paying-your-income-taxes-this-is-what-that-could-cost-you)
