---
title: "Social Security COLA could fall in 2026, forecasts say"
date: "2025-02-14 01:20:54"
summary: "By Jessica Hall Forecasts for the cost-of-living adjustment range from 2.1% to 2.3% Social Security's cost-of-living adjustment may be slightly lower in 2026, even as inflation remains high. The nonpartisan Senior Citizens League expects the COLA to be 2.3% for 2026, based on a forecast that inflation will drop throughout..."
categories:
  - "morningstar"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "morningstar"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Jessica Hall

Forecasts for the cost-of-living adjustment range from 2.1% to 2.3%

Social Security's cost-of-living adjustment may be slightly lower in 2026, even as inflation remains high.

The nonpartisan Senior Citizens League expects the COLA to be 2.3% for 2026, based on a forecast that inflation will drop throughout the coming year. Another forecast by independent Social Security and Medicare analyst Mary Johnson puts the expected COLA increase at 2.1%.

Both forecasts are below the 2025 COLA of 2.5%. The official COLA rate for 2026 will be announced in October.

The COLA is not a raise but rather an adjustment to help the roughly 67 million Social Security beneficiaries keep up with inflation.

The average Social Security check is about $1,976 a month, according to the Social Security Administration.

The forecasts come as data show an increase in consumer prices in January. The consumer-price index jumped 0.5% in the first month of 2025, marking the biggest increase since the summer of 2023.

Economists polled by the Wall Street Journal had forecast a 0.3% advance over the previous month. The increase in consumer prices in the past 12 months, meanwhile, edged up to 3% from 2.9%, well above the Federal Reserve's goal of 2% inflation.

Last week, lawmakers including U.S. Rep. Thomas Massie, a Republican from Kentucky, reintroduced the Senior Citizens Tax Elimination Act, which aims to erase the tax on Social Security benefits. Workers pay taxes on their contributions to Social Security through payroll taxes, and when they start receiving Social Security, they pay taxes on their benefits. That means that under current law, they pay taxes on the same income twice.

Read: Rich retirees win if Trump ends taxes on Social Security benefits - but there are plenty of losers

The Senior Citizens League estimated that eliminating taxes on Social Security benefits would save the typical senior household about $3,000 a year, or 5% of a typical senior budget, if it were implemented in 2025.

"Eliminating taxes on Social Security benefits would be an excellent step to provide financial relief to American seniors, many of whom are struggling with a cost of living that is growing much faster than their incomes. It would also reduce double taxation, which is inherently unjust," said Shannon Benton, executive director of the Senior Citizens League.

Benton added that more needs to be done to help low-income older adults.

"We need to do even more for low-income seniors whose dignity depends on Social Security payments that have already lost 20% of their buying power over the last 15 years," she said. "Many lower-income seniors already do not make enough to pay taxes on their Social Security benefits, and the only way to help them is by reforming Social Security's COLAs."

Estimated savings from the Senior Citizens Tax Elimination Act would make up for about 69% of the buying power that Social Security beneficiaries have lost since 2010 due to inadequate COLAs, Benton said.

The Senior Citizens League estimated that the average yearly Social Security benefits for retired workers are worth about $4,442 less today than they were in 2010 after adjusting for inflation, due to insufficient COLAs.

However, the Social Security and Medicare Hospital Insurance trust funds pulled in nearly $86 billion from the tax in 2023, according to the Congressional Research Service.

Eliminating the tax would further weigh on the trust funds that back Social Security, which are currently forecast to be depleted in 2035. At that point, beneficiaries will receive only 83% of promised benefits unless Congress acts to shore up the program.

-Jessica Hall

This content was created by MarketWatch, which is operated by Dow Jones & Co. MarketWatch is published independently from Dow Jones Newswires and The Wall Street Journal.

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

02-13-25 1216ET

Copyright (c) 2025 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

[morningstar](https://www.morningstar.com/news/marketwatch/20250213270/social-security-cola-could-fall-in-2026-forecasts-say)
