---
title: "Rich retirees win if Trump ends taxes on Social Security benefits - but there are plenty of losers"
date: "2025-02-12 10:01:01"
summary: "Andrew Keshner There's a good chance ending income tax on Social Security benefits occurs 'in some way, shape or form,' one analyst says Well-off retirees stand to gain thousands of dollars in tax savings every year if President Donald Trump succeeds in his bid to exempt Social Security benefits from..."
categories:
  - "morningstar"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "morningstar"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Andrew Keshner

There's a good chance ending income tax on Social Security benefits occurs 'in some way, shape or form,' one analyst says

Well-off retirees stand to gain thousands of dollars in tax savings every year if President Donald Trump succeeds in his bid to exempt Social Security benefits from income taxes, while younger workers and generations to come will pay the price.

That's according to new research from the Penn Wharton Budget Model spotting the possible winners and losers of a campaign pledge Trump wants to turn into law.

Households in the country's highest income group would lower their tax bills next year by an estimated $1,625 to $2,450 if Social Security benefits were no longer subject to federal income taxes, researchers said Monday. That is a fifth of the income distribution, with 2026 incomes projected to stretch from almost $180,000 to $4.6 million and above, according to the research.

The middle band of households, meaning people who make between $62,500 and $104,200, would save $340 in taxes. Some of the lowest-income Social Security recipients would reduce their taxes by up to $15.

The four-figure tax savings would start kicking in once a household had roughly more than $100,000 in income. The higher gains for higher-income households occur because they're paying the most taxes on their benefits, the researchers noted.

The $100,000 line might be where Republicans suggest an income cut-off for the tax exemption, according to one expert who gave at least 75% odds of an upcoming tax break on Social Security benefits.

"The real question is how many people will get the benefit. It's probably geared to lower-income households that largely don't have a tax liability," said Ed Mills, Washington policy analyst for Raymond James.

Big costs

Just about all retirees would benefit if taxes on their Social Security benefits were eliminated, and those yearly savings would increase over time, the Penn Wharton Budget Model researchers said. But a law change would come at a heavy cost to government revenue and Americans' future retirement planning - even if it could help seniors facing rising prices on fixed incomes who have already paid into Social Security.

The tax break could lead some people to believe they can save less money for retirement because their benefits wouldn't get taxed, the researchers said. There could also be broad, long-term consequences. The eliminated tax would decrease tax revenue by $1.5 trillion over a decade and speed Social Security's insolvency by two years, the Penn Wharton Budget Model researchers estimated.

If the tax break goes into effect, Social Security wouldn't be able to pay recipients their full promised benefits starting in December 2032, instead of December 2034, Penn Wharton researchers said. An earlier estimate made before Trump proposed the tax break found that the Social Security Trust Funds are expected to be depleted by 2035, the Social Security and Medicare Board of Trustees said in May.

Republicans are deciding what the tax code should look like after the Trump tax cuts expire at the end of the year. No tax on Social Security income is one of the president's priorities, White House Press Secretary Karoline Leavitt said last week.

So are other new tax breaks, like no tax on tips or overtime pay, and an extension of his 2017 tax cuts, she said.

Social Security benefits have been subject to federal income tax for decades. Capitol Hill watchers give different odds whether Trump's proposed tax break will become law next year.

There's a 15% chance of an exemption, according to Henrietta Treyz, co-founder of Veda Partners.

It's already going to cost more than $4 trillion to extend Trump's 2017 tax cuts. Ending taxes on Social Security income would be another new price tag to absorb, she said.

"While the cost of the idea is exorbitant at $1.5T, it's the messaging around pulling forward the insolvency date by two years that poses the most substantial political risk," Treyz said, noting that Trump's proposal could also face roadblocks in Congress.

But Mills, of Raymond James, believes there's a good chance the tax exemption on Social Security benefits materializes "in some way, shape or form." Above the $100,000 income line, any sort of tax break "gets more expensive, and politically it gets more difficult."

Currently, households are not subject to the tax when their incomes are below $25,000, or $32,000 for married couples filing jointly. Above $34,000, and $44,000 for joint filers, the benefits are taxed up to 85%. These dividing lines are not readjusted with inflation, even though Social Security benefits increase yearly.

Workers pay into Social Security through payroll taxes, but benefit taxation is also an important money stream for the safety net. The Social Security and Medicare Hospital Insurance trust funds pulled in nearly $86 billion from the tax in 2023, according to the Congressional Research Service.

As for the brewing questions on Social Security's long-term future, Mills said lawmakers "will deal with it when they get there."

The White House did not respond to a request for comment on the research.

-Andrew Keshner

This content was created by MarketWatch, which is operated by Dow Jones & Co. MarketWatch is published independently from Dow Jones Newswires and The Wall Street Journal.

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

02-11-25 2047ET

Copyright (c) 2025 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

[morningstar](https://www.morningstar.com/news/marketwatch/20250211369/rich-retirees-win-if-trump-ends-taxes-on-social-security-benefits-but-there-are-plenty-of-losers)
