---
title: "Gucci Parent Kering Posts Revenue Slump — Update"
date: "2025-02-11 16:30:54"
summary: "By Andrea Figueras Gucci owner Kering's revenue fell by less than analysts expected in the fourth quarter, at a time when some peers have pointed to signs of a rebound in luxury demand. The French luxury group booked revenue of 4.39 billion euros ($4.52 billion) for the last quarter of..."
categories:
  - "morningstar"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "morningstar"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Andrea Figueras

Gucci owner Kering's revenue fell by less than analysts expected in the fourth quarter, at a time when some peers have pointed to signs of a rebound in luxury demand.

The French luxury group booked revenue of 4.39 billion euros ($4.52 billion) for the last quarter of 2024, 12% lower than in the prior-year period. The result compares with analysts' forecasts of 4.23 billion euros, according to a poll of estimates compiled by Visible Alpha.

The company's star label Gucci--which accounts for the lion's share of group revenue--posted quarterly sales of 1.92 billion euros, down 24% on year. The group said it had a slight sequential improvement in North America and Asia-Pacific, and said that the performance of new leather-goods lines as well as iconic Gucci lines were highly encouraging.

"We are confident that we have driven Kering to a point of stabilization, from which we will gradually resume our growth trajectory," Chairman and Chief Executive Francois-Henri Pinault said.

The results come days after the group parted ways with Gucci's creative chief Sabato De Sarno, two years after he was appointed with the aim of revitalizing the brand and reducing its reliance on seasonal designs. It also intended to target more affluent customers, who have continued to spend money on high-end fashion and accessories during a slowdown in the luxury market.

The switch in artistic direction at the company's flagship brand comes after Kering reshuffled Gucci's executive team, naming Stefano Cantino as chief executive of the label in October, a year after it announced the departure of former Gucci chief Marco Bizzarri.

Gucci's turnaround challenges have contributed to make Kering one of the hardest hit by a downturn in luxury spending. The group was also hurt by waning demand in China due to its high exposure to the country.

Chinese consumers, who once drove the sector's growth, have cut back on luxury spending under pressure from the country's economic backdrop.

In light of the challenging environment in China, the U.S. market has become the focus for luxury companies. Cartier owner Richemont and trench-coat maker Burberry flagged improving trends in the U.S., raising hopes of a potential rebound for the industry. However, sector bellwether LVMH, owner of Louis Vuitton and Dior, tempered expectations about a wider recovery.

Kering reported a 62% drop in full-year net profit to 1.13 billion euros, while operating profit stood at 2.31 billion euros, missing analysts' projections of 2.5 billion euros. It proposed a dividend of 6 euros a share.

The conglomerate, which also owns Yves Saint Laurent, Bottega Veneta and Balenciaga, said it will step up investments to boost growth of its brands, while keeping its cost base under control. The company said it aims to deliver profitable growth in the long run in an economic and geopolitical environment that remains uncertain.

Write to Andrea Figueras at andrea.figueras@wsj.com

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

February 11, 2025 03:22 ET (08:22 GMT)

Copyright (c) 2025 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

[morningstar](https://www.morningstar.com/news/dow-jones/202502111611/gucci-parent-kering-posts-revenue-slump-update)
