---
title: "Nokia Names Intel's Data Center and AI Head Justin Hotard as New Chief Executive"
date: "2025-02-10 15:01:01"
summary: "By Dominic Chopping Nokia appointed Justin Hotard, a tech industry expert in data centers and AI business, as its next chief executive, as the company aims to expand into new growth areas. The Finnish telecommunication recently made moves to diversify and search for new growth areas outside of its traditional..."
categories:
  - "morningstar"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "morningstar"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Dominic Chopping

Nokia appointed Justin Hotard, a tech industry expert in data centers and AI business, as its next chief executive, as the company aims to expand into new growth areas.

The Finnish telecommunication recently made moves to diversify and search for new growth areas outside of its traditional telecom operator market, after signing a deal worth $2.3 billion to buy networking-solutions provider Infinera as it bets on new business for data centers.

The company has said that its expects data centers to be its number one growth driver in the coming years.

Justin Hotard, who currently leads Intel's Data Center and AI operations, will start in his new role on Apr. 1, taking over from Pekka Lundmark, who will continue as an adviser until the end of the year before leaving the company.

Prior to his role at Intel, Hotard held several leadership roles at large technology companies, including Hewlett Packard Enterprise and NCR Corporation.

"He has a strong track record of accelerating growth in technology companies along with vast expertise in AI and data center markets, which are critical areas for Nokia's future growth," said Sari Baldauf, Chair of Nokia's board of directors.

Lundmark has led Nokia since 2020.

Write to Dominic Chopping at dominic.chopping@wsj.com

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

February 10, 2025 01:50 ET (06:50 GMT)

Copyright (c) 2025 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

[morningstar](https://www.morningstar.com/news/dow-jones/202502101051/nokia-names-intels-data-center-and-ai-head-justin-hotard-as-new-chief-executive)
