---
title: "Hanwha Aerospace Rallies After Strong Fourth-Quarter Results"
date: "2025-02-11 15:30:54"
summary: "By Kwanwoo Jun Hanwha Aerospace's shares rallied after posting strong fourth-quarter earnings and increasing its stake in its promising ship-making sibling. The South Korean defense company's stock jumped 21% Tuesday to close at 498,000 won, equivalent to $343.08, its sharpest daily percentage gain in more than 26 years. The benchmark..."
categories:
  - "morningstar"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "morningstar"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Kwanwoo Jun

Hanwha Aerospace's shares rallied after posting strong fourth-quarter earnings and increasing its stake in its promising ship-making sibling.

The South Korean defense company's stock jumped 21% Tuesday to close at 498,000 won, equivalent to $343.08, its sharpest daily percentage gain in more than 26 years. The benchmark Kospi ended 0.7% higher.

The rally came a day after Hanwha Aerospace said net profit for the October-December quarter rose 10-fold from a year earlier to 2.052 trillion won, beating a Fact-compiled consensus forecast of 364.54 billion won. Brisk shipments of defense goods, including K9 howitzers and Cheonmu multiple-rocket launchers, led revenue to jump 56% on year to 4.831 trillion won.

For 2024, revenue rose 43% to 11.246 trillion won, while net profit more than doubled to 2.545 trillion won--well over the FactSet consensus.

Hanwha Aerospace said Monday it decided to secure an additional 7.3% stake in Hanwha Ocean, raising its total stake in the shipbuilding sibling to 42%.

Shinhan Securities analyst D.H. Lee said that the increased stake would allow Hanwha Aerospace to incorporate Hanwha Ocean in its consolidated income statement from this year. Lee expects the shipbuilder's revenue to more than double to 25.000 trillion won in 2025.

Hanwha Ocean, which supplies the South Korean navy with warships and submarines, is seen as better-positioned than its local peers under the Trump administration, which is turning to allies to help the U.S. Navy build up its fleet.

South Korea, a close U.S. military ally, is home to the world's leading shipbuilders, including Hanwha Ocean which has close business ties with the U.S.

Hanwha Ocean has secured approval to do maintenance, repair and operations work on certain U.S. Navy vessels after acquiring Philly Shipyard in Philadelphia for $100 million in 2024.

Write to Kwanwoo Jun at kwanwoo.jun@wsj.com

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

February 11, 2025 02:19 ET (07:19 GMT)

Copyright (c) 2025 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

[morningstar](https://www.morningstar.com/news/dow-jones/202502111092/hanwha-aerospace-rallies-after-strong-fourth-quarter-results)
