---
title: "Biogen's stock slides on soft guidance and a decline in sales of MS drugs"
date: "2025-02-13 00:51:31"
summary: "By Ciara Linnane Better-than-expected Alzheimer's disease treatment sales and a quarterly beat were not enough to offset below-consensus EPS outlook Biogen Inc.'s stock (BIIB) tumbled 7% Wednesday, after the biotech beat fourth-quarter earnings estimates but offered guidance that lagged behind consensus, as sales of its multiple sclerosis drug fell short..."
categories:
  - "morningstar"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "morningstar"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Ciara Linnane

Better-than-expected Alzheimer's disease treatment sales and a quarterly beat were not enough to offset below-consensus EPS outlook

Biogen Inc.'s stock (BIIB) tumbled 7% Wednesday, after the biotech beat fourth-quarter earnings estimates but offered guidance that lagged behind consensus, as sales of its multiple sclerosis drug fell short of expectations.

Cambridge, Mass.-based Biogen had net income of $266.8 million, or $1.83 a share, for the quarter, up from $249.7 million, or $1.71 a share, a year ago. Adjusted for one-time items, EPS came to $3.44, ahead of the $3.35 FactSet consensus.

Revenue rose 3% to $2.455 billion and was also ahead of the $2.408 billion FactSet consensus.

Sales of the company's Alzheimer's disease treatment leqembi came to about $87 million, ahead of the $67 million FactSet consensus. But sales of the core multiple-sclerosis portfolio fell 7% to $1.070 billion, continuing a trend that set in amid increased competition in the U.S. and Europe.

"Fourth quarter revenue from product launches continued to offset year-over-year decline in multiple sclerosis product revenue," the company said in a statement.

On a call with analysts, Chief Executive Chris Viehbacher said the four products launched last year in Alzheimer's, the rare degenerative disease Friedreich's ataxia, depression and ALS, are a key part of Biogen's strategy to combat the increased competition in the MS space. That includes the coming launch of a tysabri biosimilar in the U.S. and generic competition for tecfidera in Europe, he said.

Each of them is a disease-modifying agent but they pose the challenge in that they require a higher level of education for patients and medical professionals.

The company is prioritizing its pipeline and expects some key readouts starting in 2026.

"We think this is a multi-billion dollar portfolio, and we're probably one of the few companies that can look at a pipeline that could be more than our current biopharmaceutical business," said Viehbacher, according to a FactSet transcript.

The company will continue to invest in its Alzheimer's disease portfolio, which is expected to become a core franchise for decades to come, he said. Other key areas include lupus, autoantibodies as treatments for cancers, and rare kidney disease, he said.

Also early Wednesday, Royalty Pharma (RPRX) unveiled a new partnership with Biogen in which it will deliver $250 million in R&D funding for the company's litfilimab lupus treatment. The drug is currently in Phase 3 trials for two types of lupus with initial data readouts expected between 2026 and 2027. Royalty Pharma is an investor in biopharmaceutical royalties and a funder of innovation across the industry.

In the fourth quarter, revenue from Biogen's rare-disease-medication skyclarys came to about $102 million, while FactSet was expecting $56 million. The drug has nearly doubled the number of patients on it globally as compared with year-end 2023. In the U.S., skyclarys revenue came to about $71 million and was hit by channel inventory and Medicare-discount dynamics, said Biogen.

Revenue from the first postpartum-depression treatment to win regulatory approval zurzuvae came to about $23 million in the quarter, while FactSet was expecting $26 million.

Rare-disease revenue overall rose 15% to $535 million, while biosimilars revenue was up 7% to $202 million.

The company is expecting 2025 EPS to range from $15.25 to $16.25, below the $16.33 FactSet consensus. Revenue is expected to decline by a mid-single-digit percent on a constant currency basis, as further declines in MS product revenue are expected to be partially offset by higher revenue from product launches.

Biogen is expecting its 2025 operating margin to remain flat. The Fit for All cost-cutting program is expected to generate about $1 billion of gross savings and $800 million of reinvestment by year-end.

The guidance does not include any assumptions relating to changes in healthcare policy under the Trump administration, tax reform or acquisitions, as Biogen said that are difficult to predict.

The stock has fallen 43% in the last 12 months, while the SPDR S&P Biotech exchange-traded fund XBI has fallen 4% and the S&P 500 SPX has gained 20.8%.

-Ciara Linnane

This content was created by MarketWatch, which is operated by Dow Jones & Co. MarketWatch is published independently from Dow Jones Newswires and The Wall Street Journal.

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

02-12-25 1143ET

Copyright (c) 2025 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

[morningstar](https://www.morningstar.com/news/marketwatch/20250212281/biogens-stock-slides-on-soft-guidance-and-a-decline-in-sales-of-ms-drugs)
