---
title: "Trump to announce 25% tariffs on steel and aluminum imports on Monday"
date: "2025-02-10 07:10:47"
summary: "By Mike Murphy Trump also claims irregularities regarding U.S. Treasury debt President Donald Trump said Sunday he will announce 25% tariffs against all steel and aluminum imports into the U.S. on Monday. He added that he plans to announce a series of reciprocal tariffs on Tuesday or Wednesday. Trump said..."
categories:
  - "morningstar"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "morningstar"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Mike Murphy

Trump also claims irregularities regarding U.S. Treasury debt

President Donald Trump said Sunday he will announce 25% tariffs against all steel and aluminum imports into the U.S. on Monday.

He added that he plans to announce a series of reciprocal tariffs on Tuesday or Wednesday. Trump said on Friday that reciprocal tariffs were forthcoming - potentially against imports from China, Japan, the European Union and Taiwan, among other countries that already impose tariffs against American goods.

"If they are charging us 130% and we're charging them nothing, it's not going to stay that way," Trump told reporters aboard Air Force One on Sunday.

Read more: Trump says he'll roll out reciprocal tariffs next week. Here are his possible targets.

Trump also suggested Sunday that Elon Musk's efficiency team has found irregularities at the U.S. Treasury and that the U.S. may not be obligated to pay certain debt payments due to fraud.

"There could be a problem - you've been reading about that, with Treasuries and that could be an interesting problem," Trump told reporters. "It could be that a lot of those things don't count. In other words, that some of that stuff that we're finding is very fraudulent, therefore maybe we have less debt than we thought." He did not provide details or elaborate on the possible repercussions of that.

Trump also did not say when the new tariffs will take effect. He has already imposed additional 10% tariffs against goods made in China, and paused the imposition of 25% tariffs against Canada and Mexico for a month.

Critics warn that tariffs could result in higher prices for American consumers, at a time when inflation has remained stubbornly high for years. Supporters of tariffs claim they will help reduce dependence on foreign imports and help revive American industry.

Stocks took a tumble on Friday as investors considered the effects of additional tariffs, with the Dow Jones Industrial Average DJIA losing 444 points, or 1%, while the S&P 500 SPX also fell 1% and the Nasdaq Composite COMP slid 1.4%.

More: On earnings calls, executives are trying to figure out Trump's tariffs

-Mike Murphy

This content was created by MarketWatch, which is operated by Dow Jones & Co. MarketWatch is published independently from Dow Jones Newswires and The Wall Street Journal.

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

02-09-25 1756ET

Copyright (c) 2025 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

[morningstar](https://www.morningstar.com/news/marketwatch/20250209190/trump-to-announce-25-tariffs-on-steel-and-aluminum-imports-on-monday)
