---
title: "Trump's tariffs and tax plans are inflationary. Voters won't tolerate it."
date: "2025-02-13 02:40:54"
summary: "By Peter Morici Trump can no sooner repeal the law of gravity than change some macroeconomic realities Trump's policies could enable progressive Democrats to win back control in Washington. President Trump's trade war could harm America. The U.S. enjoys robust growth and a strong currency. Yet as the 2024 presidential..."
categories:
  - "morningstar"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "morningstar"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Peter Morici

Trump can no sooner repeal the law of gravity than change some macroeconomic realities

Trump's policies could enable progressive Democrats to win back control in Washington.

President Trump's trade war could harm America.

The U.S. enjoys robust growth and a strong currency. Yet as the 2024 presidential election demonstrated, voters won't tolerate politicians whose policies stoke inflation - and tariffs raise prices.

But Trump's new steel, aluminum and reciprocal tariffs will boost inflation. Big tariffs on Canada, Mexico, Europe, Japan and others will weaken those economies, encourage retaliation against the U.S. and drive these reliable U.S. allies into accommodations with Russia and China.

Ultimately, America will become isolated, with smaller markets for its technology products and fewer resources for both research and development and advancement in artificial intelligence. This will result in diminished growth and leave the U.S. a poorer nation.

That's why Trump's tariffs and tax-cut aspirations must reflect voter sentiments. Otherwise, Trump won't reduce the U.S. trade deficit or boost U.S. manufacturing. Instead, he will enable progressive Democrats to win back control in Washington.

Instead of slapping tariffs on Canada, Mexico and Europe, America should engage these allies against China.

Trading places

The world has changed since Trump's first term.

China has accomplished global dominance in many manufacturing industries, built a formidable Navy and forged an axis with Russia, Iran and North Korea. Chinese President Xi Jinping is more confident, ready and able to exploit divisions in the West. China runs a modest budget deficit and exports more than it imports-its current account surplus ranges between 2% and 4% of its GDP.

Still, China's reliance on exports to sustain growth, its thin social safety net, excessive domestic savings and a burst property bubble leave the country wrestling with deflation.

China protects its domestic market, subsidizing virtually every major export industry and forcing its trade surpluses as deficits on the current accounts of other major economies. This deprives the West of investment, jobs and resources for R&D in areas of natural comparative advantage.

Economists have produced numerous studies alleging that Trump's first-term tariffs on China had negative consequences. Better now to have a coordinated Western approach to China that would limit China's capacity to support Russia and Iran, and the Chinese Navy's ability to intimidate neighbors and seize control in the Pacific.

Instead of imposing new tariffs on U.S. allies, Trump should encourage them to impose similar new measures on China. For example, apply new U.S. tariffs on the Chinese content of U.S. imports from third-party countries, but exempt their exports if they impose similar new tariffs on Chinese goods.

Europe on the ropes

Europe, meanwhile, is burdened by overregulation and decades of underinvestment. Germany, for example, is burdened by an auto sector unable to compete with Chinese electric vehicles and high energy prices now that it lacks access to Russian-produced gas.

If Trump appeases Russian President Vladimir Putin on the Ukraine war, how long will it be before Germany decides it needs Russian gas for its economy to succeed - and European unity splinters?

The U.S. needs a united Europe for another important reason. AI runs on chips designed in America and fabricated in Taiwan - with equipment manufactured exclusively in the Netherlands.

Put simply, America must hold the line on Putin in Europe to survive economically.

Taxes and tariffs

Trump's first-term tax cuts and former President Joe Biden's spending swelled the federal budget deficit to 7% of GDP from 2.9% in 2016. Public-sector borrowing, business investment and new-home construction currently exceed U.S. business and household savings.

The U.S. dollar's (DX00) status as the world's reserve currency and strength in artificial intelligence, allow the U.S. to fill that budget gap with large current account deficits through foreign sales of Treasury securities and a prodigious amount of foreign investment in AI.

Extending the 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (TCJA) is not a tax cut but merely sustaining status quo fiscal policies. But new tax breaks that are not financed by spending cuts, revenue from tariffs or curtailing some benefits in the TCJA would increase both the U.S. budget and current account deficits and stoke inflation.

Trump can no sooner repeal the law of gravity than change these macroeconomic realities.

Peter Morici is an economist and emeritus business professor at the University of Maryland, and a national columnist.

More: How Trump's trade wars could backfire on U.S. stock and bond investors

Plus: DeepSeek took Big Tech by surprise. What else are America's AI leaders missing?

-Peter Morici

This content was created by MarketWatch, which is operated by Dow Jones & Co. MarketWatch is published independently from Dow Jones Newswires and The Wall Street Journal.

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

02-12-25 1331ET

Copyright (c) 2025 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

[morningstar](https://www.morningstar.com/news/marketwatch/20250212312/trumps-tariffs-and-tax-plans-are-inflationary-voters-wont-tolerate-it)
