---
title: "OPEC Sticks to Oil-Demand View, Flags U.S. Trade -2-"
date: "2025-02-13 02:00:58"
summary: "0855 ET - Oil futures are down after an industry group reports a large build in U.S. crude inventories, while OPEC holds its 2025 oil demand growth estimate at 1.45 million barrels a day. The API said crude stocks increased by 9 million barrels last week, analysts note, which follows..."
categories:
  - "morningstar"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "morningstar"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

0855 ET - Oil futures are down after an industry group reports a large build in U.S. crude inventories, while OPEC holds its 2025 oil demand growth estimate at 1.45 million barrels a day. The API said crude stocks increased by 9 million barrels last week, analysts note, which follows an 8.7 million barrel build reported for the previous week by the EIA. The EIA's data for last week are due at 10:30 ET. "Crude stock builds are expected in the U.S., but the recent rate of building is more than expected," TP ICAP's Scott Shelton says in a note. "I think that we may see a slowing in the builds in February for the U.S. as exports will be stronger," he adds. WTI is down 1.2% at $72.43 a barrel, and Brent is off 1% at $76.23. (anthony.harrup@wsj.com)

--

Base Metal Prices Mixed as Tariffs Pile Pressure on U.S. Economy -- Market Talk

1125 GMT - Base metal prices are mixed, with LME three-month copper up 0.3% at $9,387 a metric ton and LME three-month aluminum down 0.9% at $2,615.50 a ton. Tariff pressures are building for the U.S. economy, BMI says, which could pressure industrial metal demand lower. President Trump's 25% tariffs on aluminum and steel imports could prompt further escalations, it notes. Further tariffs, including the proposed blanket Mexican and Canadian tariffs, could also strengthen the Midwest premium and widen the price difference between U.S. and LME prices. Tariffs will help boost domestic steel production, but it will be a challenge to significantly increase output, BMI writes. The U.S. aluminum industry isn't globally competitive given high costs, and imports account for around 50% of total demand, suggesting significant pass-through effects, BMI adds. (joseph.hoppe@wsj.com)

--

Palm Oil Rises, Supported by Tighter Supply, Soft Ringgit -- Market Talk

1009 GMT - Palm oil prices rose, driven by tightened supply and a softer Malaysian ringgit, Darren Lim, commodities strategist at Phillip Nova writes in a note. The 17% drop in production in January, according to the Malaysian Palm Oil Board, reflects tightening supply, driving the price rally along with expectations of heightened demand ahead of the Ramadan festive season, Lim says. A weaker ringgit has also made palm oil more attractive to foreign buyers, Lim adds. The Bursa Malaysia Derivatives contract for April delivery rose MYR31 to MYR4,624/ton. (kimberley.kao@wsj.com)

--

Europe's Gas Retreats After Hitting Two-Year Highs -- Market Talk

0939 GMT - European natural-gas prices retreat after reaching their highest level in two years, with the benchmark Dutch TTF contract down 3.1% to 55.90 euros a megawatt hour. "The rally in European gas prices took a breather amid concerns by traders that the recent gains were overdone," ANZ Research analysts say. "Nevertheless, the issues which have been driving prices higher remain intact." Cold weather and low wind speeds have significantly increased fuel demand in recent weeks, leading to faster-than-expected depletion of storage facilities and raising concerns over summer refill rates. Meanwhile, the European Commission is considering a temporary cap on EU gas prices due to their recent surge, the Financial Times reports. (giulia.petroni@wsj.com)

--

Iron Ore Higher Amid Solid Demand-Supply Dynamics -- Market Talk

0325 GMT - Iron ore is higher in early Asia trading thanks to solid demand and supply, Nanhua Futures analysts say in a note. Chinese steel factories are likely to speed up operation resumptions in the wake of the Lunar New Year holiday, the analysts say. Still, it is unclear if domestic demand can be sustained longer term, especially after some factories placed pre-orders to catch the window before additional trade tariffs take effect, they note. The most-traded iron-ore contract on the Dalian Commodity Exchange is up 0.55% at CNY825.5/ton. (tracy.qu@wsj.com)

--

Crude Palm Oil Prices Likely to Remain Stable in February -- Market Talk

0206 GMT - Crude palm oil prices are likely to remain stable in February, hovering around between MYR4,500/ton to MYR5,000/ton. The prices are seen to be supported by restocking ahead of the Ramadan festive season as well as lower output, MIDF Research says in a note. January CPO average prices strengthened by 24% on year. Malaysia's palm oil output recovery is expected to be slow, with only 1% growth expected in 2025, due to biological tree rest and adverse weather, it adds. Large planters, such as IOI Corp., SD Guthrie, and Genting Plantations, could benefit from elevated CPO prices, it adds. MIDF maintains a tactical positive rating on the Malaysian plantation sector, expecting high CPO prices to persist at least until 1H. (yingxian.wong@wsj.com)

--

Aluminum Falls; Volatility Expected to Remain High -- Market Talk

0138 GMT - Aluminum falls in early Asian trade. Volatility in the aluminum market is likely to remain high after U.S. President Trump announced tariffs on U.S. imports, ANZ Research analysts write in a note. On Monday, Trump announced 25% tariffs on imports of steel and aluminum to the U.S. There could be upward pressure on prices, as the U.S. aluminum industries are expected to struggle to avoid the tariffs in the short term, the analysts say. The three-month LME aluminum contract is down 0.6% at $2,627.00/ton. (amanda.lee@wsj.com)

--

Gold Edges Higher Amid Mixed Signals -- Market Talk

2336 GMT - Gold edges higher in early Asian trade amid mixed signals. Higher Treasury yields and a stronger U.S. dollar offset safe-haven demand on concerns of trade wars, says Fawad Razaqzada, market analyst at City Index and FOREX.com, in an email. Meanwhile, gold has reached extreme levels with the relative strength index showing overbought signals across multiple timeframes, based on charts, the analyst says. These RSI levels suggest that a pullback or consolidation may be on the horizon, the analyst adds. Spot gold is 0.1% higher at $2,899.83/oz. (ronnie.harui@wsj.com)

Write to Barcelona Editors at barcelonaeditors@dowjones.com

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

February 12, 2025 12:47 ET (17:47 GMT)

Copyright (c) 2025 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

[morningstar](https://www.morningstar.com/news/dow-jones/2025021210994/opec-sticks-to-oil-demand-view-flags-us-trade-2)
