---
title: "Nymex Overview: Crude, Product Futures Slide After US Data, Fed Comments — OPIS"
date: "2025-02-13 02:10:53"
summary: "Oil and refined product futures fell heavily on Wednesday, weighed down by the latest U.S. data that showed an increase in crude inventory and comments by Fed Chair Jerome Powell on expected slower interest rate cuts. At 12:10 p.m. ET, most-active April NYMEX West Texas Intermediate crude oil fell $1.60..."
categories:
  - "morningstar"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "morningstar"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Oil and refined product futures fell heavily on Wednesday, weighed down by the latest U.S. data that showed an increase in crude inventory and comments by Fed Chair Jerome Powell on expected slower interest rate cuts.

At 12:10 p.m. ET, most-active April NYMEX West Texas Intermediate crude oil fell $1.60 to around $71.50/bbl, and front-month March WTI also slid $1.65 to $71.65/bbl.

London-based ICE Brent crude for April delivery decreased by $1.50 to about $75.50/bbl and May Brent slipped $1.45 to $75.20/bbl.

April NYMEX RBOB was off by 5.15cts to $2.3205/gal and March RBOB fell 5.1cts to $2.0965/gal. April ULSD dropped 4.15cts to $2.4095/gal and March ULSD was 4.6cts lower to $2.4690/gal.

The latest Energy Information Administration data showed U.S. commercial crude stocks jumped more than 4 million bbl for the week ended Friday. However, gasoline stocks posted their first drawdown in 2025, down by about 3 million bbl, EIA data showed.

The latest Commerce Department data showed consumer prices increased by a more-than-expected 3% annual rate in January. Meanwhile, Powell said in congressional testimony that the Fed is not rushing to cut interest rates further following the inflation data earlier Wednesday.

This content was created by Oil Price Information Service, which is operated by Dow Jones & Co. OPIS is run independently from Dow Jones Newswires and The Wall Street Journal.

--Reporting by Frank Tang, ftang@opisnet.com; Editing by Michael Kelly, mkelly@opisnet.com

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

February 12, 2025 12:57 ET (17:57 GMT)

Copyright (c) 2025 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

[morningstar](https://www.morningstar.com/news/dow-jones/2025021211057/nymex-overview-crude-product-futures-slide-after-us-data-fed-comments-opis)
