---
title: "Bitcoin could see $23 billion inflows if these 18 states pass bills to establish crypto reserves"
date: "2025-02-14 11:41:13"
summary: "By Frances Yue If all 20 bills introduced in 18 states to establish state-level bitcoin reserves are enacted, it could potentially lead to the buying of more than $23 billion worth of bitcoin - or some 247,000 bitcoins in total - and drive up the crypto's price, according to investment..."
categories:
  - "morningstar"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "morningstar"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Frances Yue

If all 20 bills introduced in 18 states to establish state-level bitcoin reserves are enacted, it could potentially lead to the buying of more than $23 billion worth of bitcoin - or some 247,000 bitcoins in total - and drive up the crypto's price, according to investment manager VanEck.

Bitcoin (BTCUSD) traded at slightly above $96,000 on Thursday, roughly 12% below its record high of $109,225 reached on Jan. 20.

Legislators in states including Massachusetts, Ohio, Texas, Illinois, North Carolina and Florida have introduced bills in the past few months proposing to establish government reserves to invest in bitcoin and potentially other digital assets.

To be sure, it is unclear whether and how many of the bills will be passed. State lawmakers have to date introduced a total of 23 such bills, with three of them having already failed, according to VanEck's analysis. Those three bills - in Pennsylvania, Wyoming and North Dakota - were introduced before President Donald Trump's inauguration on Jan. 20.

Trump, who has called himself a "crypto president," vowed to build a strategic bitcoin reserve in the U.S. during his campaign. He also signed an executive order on Jan. 23 setting up a federal crypto working group and calling for the group to evaluate "the potential creation and maintenance of a national digital-asset stockpile."

The majority of the state-level bills to build bitcoin or digital-asset reserves were introduced by Republican lawmakers, with some also proposing to allow their state pension funds to invest in bitcoin. Wisconsin and Michigan are among states that have already allowed their pension funds to invest in the crypto.

Proposed funding sources for the state bitcoin reserves range from states' general funds, to gifts and donations, to criminal forfeitures.

If enacted, the states could each invest anywhere from $50 million to over $8.7 billion in bitcoin, based on VanEck's analysis.

Matthew Sigel, head of digital-assets research at VanEck, wrote on X that he expects up to $23 billion to be invested in bitcoin if all of the bills are enacted. He described that number as "potentially conservative," as the size of some states' possible allocations into bitcoin remains unknown.

VanEck manages several exchange-traded products, including a bitcoin ETF HODL and a ether ETF ETHV in the U.S.

-Frances Yue

This content was created by MarketWatch, which is operated by Dow Jones & Co. MarketWatch is published independently from Dow Jones Newswires and The Wall Street Journal.

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

02-13-25 2225ET

Copyright (c) 2025 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

[morningstar](https://www.morningstar.com/news/marketwatch/20250213621/bitcoin-could-see-23-billion-inflows-if-these-18-states-pass-bills-to-establish-crypto-reserves)
