---
title: "Intel's stock is on a run not seen in more than two decades"
date: "2025-02-13 11:30:57"
summary: "By Emily Bary Intel's stock has enjoyed a strong three-day rally, fueled by a hospitable political climate and analyst commentary about its CPU business Intel Corp.'s stock has been on a tear lately - and a quite notable one. The stock rose 7.2% on Wednesday, putting its three-day rally at..."
categories:
  - "morningstar"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "morningstar"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Emily Bary

Intel's stock has enjoyed a strong three-day rally, fueled by a hospitable political climate and analyst commentary about its CPU business

Intel Corp.'s stock has been on a tear lately - and a quite notable one.

The stock rose 7.2% on Wednesday, putting its three-day rally at 17.7%. That cements Intel's (INTC) best three-day percentage gain since the period that ended April 20, 2001, when the shares rose 24.5%, according to Dow Jones Market Data.

Shares of Intel have been bouncing near 14-year lows for the past few months, after having closed at one in September.

There are a few factors driving Intel's recent momentum. One is that Vice President J.D. Vance cheered U.S. semiconductor manufacturing at an event early Tuesday.

"To safeguard America's advantage, the Trump administration will ensure that the most powerful AI systems are built in the U.S. with American-designed-and-manufactured chips," Vance said at an AI summit.

Read more: Is Intel now a Trump stock? Its shares surge after upbeat comments by J.D. Vance.

Unlike many of its peers, Intel both designs chips and makes them. The company also has been trying to build out a business that would manufacture chips for others in the industry.

Intel's businesses in general have struggled to keep up with the competition and to keep pace with industry trends like artificial intelligence. Plus, the manufacturing arm continues to bleed money. But there seems to be hope that government support for American-made semiconductors could benefit Intel.

Also, Jefferies analyst Blayne Curtis wrote late on Tuesday that Intel seems to be picking up capacity in central processing units, driven by momentum for its Emerald Rapids product.

Intel is still without a permanent chief executive, and the company didn't have much fresh to say on the search process on its last earnings call. In recent months, there has also been bouts of speculation that Intel could be a takeover target - either with all or part of the business.

See also: Intel's forecast missed by a mile. Here's why the stock is 'numb' to the problem.

-Emily Bary

This content was created by MarketWatch, which is operated by Dow Jones & Co. MarketWatch is published independently from Dow Jones Newswires and The Wall Street Journal.

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

02-12-25 2217ET

Copyright (c) 2025 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

[morningstar](https://www.morningstar.com/news/marketwatch/20250212651/intels-stock-is-on-a-run-not-seen-in-more-than-two-decades)
