---
title: "Why the stock market bulls are rooting for the Eagles in the Super Bowl"
date: "2025-02-10 05:10:50"
summary: "By Mark Hulbert Subjecting the Super Bowl Predictor to statistical scrutiny The stock market will rise over the coming year if the Philadelphia Eagles win the Super Bowl on Feb. 9. That's according to the infamous Super Bowl Predictor, which forecasts that the stock market will rise if the winning..."
categories:
  - "morningstar"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "morningstar"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Mark Hulbert

Subjecting the Super Bowl Predictor to statistical scrutiny

The stock market will rise over the coming year if the Philadelphia Eagles win the Super Bowl on Feb. 9.

That's according to the infamous Super Bowl Predictor, which forecasts that the stock market will rise if the winning team comes from the National Football Conference, and fall if the victor is from the American Football Conference. That means a Philadelphia Eagles win would be bullish and a Kansas City Chiefs win would be bearish.

As this is written, the betting lines have the Chiefs slight favorites, which means the odds are that the Super Bowl Predictor will be bearish for the rest of 2024. But you can relax: The Super Bowl Predictor has no statistical significance. You would do better flipping a coin.

To judge the Predictor's record, we need to focus on the period since 1978. That's when it was first "discovered" by Leonard Koppett, a sportswriter and a member of the Baseball Hall of Fame, who in February of that year wrote about it in Sporting News. William LeFevre, editor of a newsletter called the Monday Morning Market Memo, subsequently publicized Koppett's suggestion, and it became even better known after that when it was championed by Robert Stovall, who at the time was president of the investment firm Stovall Twenty-First Advisors.

Many who champion the Super Bowl Predictor want to include the years before 1978 in the record, when it correctly predicted the stock market's direction in 11 out of 12 years. But the true test of any indicator is its performance after it was first discovered - a so-called real-world test.

Beginning in 1978, the NFC team has won the Super Bowl 26 times. In those years the S&P 500 rose 19 times from the date of the big game to the end of the year - or 73% - and gained an average of 9.3%. Not bad, you say? Consider the 21 years since 1978 in which the AFC team won the Super Bowl: In those years, the S&P 500 proceeded to rise through the end of the year 18 times - or 86% of the time - and gained an average of 10.5%.

In other words, the stock market has done better in those years in which the Super Bowl Predictor thought it would do worse - and vice versa.

I should acknowledge that there is more than one incarnation of the Super Bowl Predictor, with slightly different track records depending on their precise formulations. The various versions differ according to how they classify teams that have changed leagues, moved cities or are expansion teams. But none of the versions comes close to satisfying traditional standards of statistical significance.

When we start believing our jokes

You shouldn't be surprised by the Super Bowl Predictor's terrible record. Koppett introduced the indicator as a joke, not as something to be taken seriously, and when it caught on he said it was an "embarrassment." Years later, he said that he would find it a "relief" if the indicator could be declared "dead as a doornail."

What is it about human nature that we are willing to believe that our jokes are true? As long ago as four decades ago, Warren Buffett was wondering about this phenomenon. This is what he wrote in his 1985 shareholder letter to Berkshire Hathaway investors:

"An oil prospector, moving to his heavenly reward, was met by St. Peter with bad news. 'You're qualified for residence,' said St. Peter, 'but, as you can see, the compound reserved for oil men is packed. There's no way to squeeze you in.' After thinking a moment, the prospector asked if he might say just four words to the present occupants. That seemed harmless to St. Peter, so the prospector cupped his hands and yelled, 'Oil discovered in hell.' Immediately the gate to the compound opened and all of the oil men marched out to head for the nether regions. Impressed, St. Peter invited the prospector to move in and make himself comfortable. The prospector paused. 'No,' he said, 'I think I'll go along with the rest of the boys. There might be some truth to that rumor after all.'"

Buyer beware.

Mark Hulbert is a regular contributor to MarketWatch. His Hulbert Ratings tracks investment newsletters that pay a flat fee to be audited. He can be reached at mark@hulbertratings.com.

-Mark Hulbert

This content was created by MarketWatch, which is operated by Dow Jones & Co. MarketWatch is published independently from Dow Jones Newswires and The Wall Street Journal.

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

02-09-25 1601ET

Copyright (c) 2025 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

[morningstar](https://www.morningstar.com/news/marketwatch/20250209175/why-the-stock-market-bulls-are-rooting-for-the-eagles-in-the-super-bowl)
