---
title: "Oil prices drop after industry data shows big rise in U.S. crude inventories"
date: "2025-02-12 21:00:58"
summary: "By William Watts The headline on an earlier version of this article incorrectly stated the direction of the change in crude inventories. Oil futures fell Wednesday, threatening to end a three-day winning streak, after industry data showed a large rise in U.S. crude inventories. Investors were awaiting official data on..."
categories:
  - "morningstar"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "morningstar"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By William Watts

The headline on an earlier version of this article incorrectly stated the direction of the change in crude inventories.

Oil futures fell Wednesday, threatening to end a three-day winning streak, after industry data showed a large rise in U.S. crude inventories.

Investors were awaiting official data on U.S. supplies as well as a monthly update to forecasts from the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries due later Wednesday.

Price moves

-- West Texas Intermediate crude CL00 for March delivery CL.1 CLH25 fell 86 cents, or 1.2%, to $72.46 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange.

-- April Brent crude BRN00 BRNJ25, the global benchmark, was off 74 cents, or 1%, at $76.26 a barrel on ICE Futures Energy.

Market drivers

The American Petroleum Institute, an industry trade group, reported late Tuesday that U.S. crude inventories rose 9.04 million barrels last week, according to a source citing the data, while gasoline stocks fell 2.51 million barrels and distillates, which include diesel and heating oil, dropped 590,000 barrels.

The API figures were "largely bearish for the oil market," said analysts at ING. If confirmed by the Energy Information Administration's official data due Wednesday, the rise in crude would be the largest in a year, they said.

On average, analysts polled by S&P Global Commodity Insights expect the EIA data to show a climb of 4.5 million in commercial crude inventories for the week that ended Feb. 7. They also forecast a weekly rise of 1.3 million barrels for gasoline and a decline of 1.6 million barrels for distillates.

-William Watts

This content was created by MarketWatch, which is operated by Dow Jones & Co. MarketWatch is published independently from Dow Jones Newswires and The Wall Street Journal.

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

02-12-25 0755ET

Copyright (c) 2025 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

[morningstar](https://www.morningstar.com/news/marketwatch/20250212212/oil-prices-drop-after-industry-data-shows-big-rise-in-us-crude-inventories)
