---
title: "Altman brushes off Musk's bid for OpenAI control as rocky saga hits next level"
date: "2025-02-11 09:31:02"
summary: "By Emily Bary Elon Musk and Sam Altman have sparred over the future of OpenAI and more since Musk left the company The rocky relationship between Elon Musk and Sam Altman is reaching a new dimension, with Musk reportedly leading a group of investors that seeks control of OpenAI. Musk..."
categories:
  - "morningstar"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "morningstar"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Emily Bary

Elon Musk and Sam Altman have sparred over the future of OpenAI and more since Musk left the company

The rocky relationship between Elon Musk and Sam Altman is reaching a new dimension, with Musk reportedly leading a group of investors that seeks control of OpenAI.

Musk and his fellow investors submitted a $97.4 billion offer Monday for the nonprofit that controls OpenAI, according to the Wall Street Journal. The offer sets up a battle between Musk and Altman - both OpenAI co-founders - over the future of the ChatGPT creator.

Altman shot back on X, formerly known as Twitter, with a dig at how the value of the social-media platform has come down since Musk took it private for about $44 billion in 2022.

Musk's lawyer did not immediately respond to a MarketWatch request for comment.

Having left OpenAI several years back, Musk now wants the company to "return to the open-source, safety-focused force for good it once was," according to a statement in the WSJ. Altman, by contrast, leads OpenAI currently and has been working to turn it into a for-profit enterprise, in which the nonprofit would own an equity stake.

Musk is already in the process of suing OpenAI for breach of contract, among other things. In a suit filed last year, he said that OpenAI was designed to be "for the benefit of humanity" but has since strayed from that mission. He also took aim at the company for abandoning an open-source approach to its technology and for its close relationship with Microsoft Corp. (MSFT), an OpenAI investor.

The open-source issue is back in focus with Musk's buyout bid, which involves several investors including xAI, Musk's own artificial-intelligence venture.

Musk has cast doubts about OpenAI's recent involvement in the Stargate joint venture that's pledged to invest $500 billion in U.S. artificial-intelligence infrastructure. Last month, Musk questioned on X whether SoftBank (JP:9984) (SFTBY), one of the Stargate partners, had secured much funding for the initiative.

Altman replied to Musk's comments, saying: "I realize what is great for the country isn't always what's optimal for your companies." Musk's various companies, which include X, Tesla Inc. (TSLA) and xAI, weren't involved in the Stargate efforts.

Opinion: Elon Musk has his doubts about Stargate. Here's why he may be right.

While OpenAI was valued at $157 billion in an October funding round, the Musk-led offer is for the nonprofit arm that is intended to own equity in OpenAI once it becomes a for-profit entity.

"If Sam Altman and the present OpenAI Inc. board of directors are intent on becoming a fully for-profit corporation, it is vital that the charity be fairly compensated for what its leadership is taking away from it: control over the most transformative technology of our time," Musk's lawyer Marc Toberoff said in the Wall Street Journal report.

-Emily Bary

This content was created by MarketWatch, which is operated by Dow Jones & Co. MarketWatch is published independently from Dow Jones Newswires and The Wall Street Journal.

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

02-10-25 2021ET

Copyright (c) 2025 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

[morningstar](https://www.morningstar.com/news/marketwatch/20250210399/altman-brushes-off-musks-bid-for-openai-control-as-rocky-saga-hits-next-level)
