---
title: "UniCredit Guides For Flat Profit, Dip in Revenue"
date: "2025-02-11 15:10:56"
summary: "By Elena Vardon UniCredit guided for flat profit in 2025 despite an expected dip in revenue as lower interest rates eat into its top line. The Italian bank on Tuesday said it expects net profit to be broadly in line with 2024's result of 9.31 billion euros ($9.60 billion). UniCredit's..."
categories:
  - "morningstar"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "morningstar"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Elena Vardon

UniCredit guided for flat profit in 2025 despite an expected dip in revenue as lower interest rates eat into its top line.

The Italian bank on Tuesday said it expects net profit to be broadly in line with 2024's result of 9.31 billion euros ($9.60 billion). UniCredit's net profit metric is adjusted for previous year's tax losses from deferred tax assets--balance-sheet items reducing future tax obligations--.

The lender expects revenue to come in above 23 billion euros this year, slipping from the 24.84 billion euro result it reported for 2024. It attributed the decline to a moderate fall in net interest income--the difference between what lenders earn from loans and pay for deposits--as well as the further compression of its business in Russia, but guided for its fees to grow in the mid-single digits.

For the fourth quarter, UniCredit made 1.56 billion euros in net profit, which represented a 18% on-year fall but beat expectations of a 1.44 billion euro result taken from a company-compiled consensus.

It also made 6.00 billion euros--against 5.96 billion euros a year prior--which topped consensus' 5.89 billion euro estimate.

UniCredit has been in the spotlight recently due to its interest in dealmaking in home and abroad. "Any inorganic growth must improve our standalone case and meet our strict financial and strategic requirements.," Chief Executive Andrea Orcel said.

Write to Elena Vardon at elena.vardon@wsj.com

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

February 11, 2025 02:02 ET (07:02 GMT)

Copyright (c) 2025 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

[morningstar](https://www.morningstar.com/news/dow-jones/20250211944/unicredit-guides-for-flat-profit-dip-in-revenue)
