---
title: "Vornado Realty Trust: Leasing Success Amidst Financial Challenges"
date: "2025-02-12 08:20:32"
summary: "Vornado Realty Trust ((VNO)) has held its Q4 earnings call. Read on for the main highlights of the call. Maximize Your Portfolio with Data Driven Insights:Leverage the power of TipRanks' Smart Score, a data-driven tool to help you uncover top performing stocks and make informed investment decisions. Monitor your stock..."
categories:
  - "tipranks_announcements"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "tipranks_announcements"
menu: ""
thumbnail: "https://blog.tipranks.com/wp-content/uploads/2023/06/shutterstock_1347656177-750x406.jpg"
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Vornado Realty Trust ([(VNO)](https://www.tipranks.com/stocks/vno)) has held its Q4 earnings call. Read on for the main highlights of the call.

### Maximize Your Portfolio with Data Driven Insights:

* Leverage the power of [TipRanks' Smart Score](https://www.tipranks.com/screener/top-smart-score-stocks), a data-driven tool to help you uncover top performing stocks and make informed investment decisions.
* Monitor your stock picks and compare them to top Wall Street Analysts' recommendations with  [Your Smart Portfolio](https://www.tipranks.com/smart-portfolio/holdings)

Vornado Realty Trust’s recent earnings call highlighted a blend of optimistic achievements and cautious outlooks. The company emphasized significant strides in leasing and strategic debt management, particularly in the New York market, alongside challenges such as declining Funds From Operations (FFO) and high construction costs. Despite these hurdles, Vornado’s focus on leasing successes and long-term growth indicates a cautious optimism moving forward.

Significant Leasing Activity in New York
----------------------------------------

Vornado Realty Trust reported a remarkable leasing performance in 2024, having leased a total of 3.34 million square feet, with 2.65 million square feet located in New York office spaces. These leases commanded market-leading starting rents of $104, contributing to a 49% increase in the company’s stock price for the year, following a 35% rise in 2023.

Strong Performance at Penn Two
------------------------------

The company highlighted Penn Two’s strong leasing performance, expecting it to reach 80% occupancy by the end of the year, with rents surpassing initial underwriting expectations. Penn Two’s incremental yield notably increased to 10.2%, showcasing its robust financial performance.

Debt Management Achievements
----------------------------

In terms of debt management, Vornado Realty Trust successfully repaid $450 million in unsecured bonds. Additionally, the company anticipates relieving its balance sheet of $700 million in debt with a master lease agreement with NYU at 770 Broadway, further strengthening its financial position.

LEED Certification Milestone
----------------------------

A significant milestone for Vornado was achieving 100% LEED certification across its entire portfolio, making it the first company in its sector to reach this environmental benchmark. This accomplishment underscores Vornado’s commitment to sustainability and efficient building management.

Decline in Comparable FFO
-------------------------

Vornado reported a decline in comparable FFO to $2.26 per share for 2024, down from the previous year. This decrease was primarily attributed to lower Net Operating Income (NOI) from known tenant move-outs and higher net interest expenses.

Challenging Short-Term Financial Outlook
----------------------------------------

The company projects a slightly lower financial performance for 2025 compared to 2024, with significant earnings growth not anticipated until 2027. This outlook reflects the impact of current economic challenges and strategic lease terminations.

High Construction Costs and Interest Rates
------------------------------------------

The earnings call also addressed the challenge of escalating construction costs in New York, which have doubled over the past six to seven years. Coupled with high interest rates, these factors are creating a challenging environment for new developments and expansions.

Forward-Looking Guidance
------------------------

Looking ahead, Vornado Realty Trust is optimistic about the New York real estate market’s prospects. The company anticipates a 10.7% availability in premium office space, significantly lower than the 20.1% in lower-tier markets, with expectations for rent increases. The stock price’s impressive climb in 2024, backed by substantial leasing activities, sets a positive tone for future growth. Office occupancy is projected to increase to the low 90s in 2025, with substantial earnings growth envisioned by 2027.

In conclusion, Vornado Realty Trust’s earnings call showcased a mix of strong operational achievements and cautious financial outlooks. The company’s substantial leasing activities in New York and strategic debt management demonstrate a robust operational strategy, while financial challenges such as declining FFO and high construction costs highlight areas of concern. However, the forward-looking guidance suggests optimism for the New York market’s resilience and potential for future growth.

Trending Articles:
------------------

* [M&A News: Paramount (NASDAQ:PARA) Merger Wins EU Approval](https://www.tipranks.com/news/ma-news-paramount-nasdaqpara-merger-wins-eu-approval)
* [Ford (NYSE:F) F-250 Super Duty Takes a Big Win in Value](https://www.tipranks.com/news/ford-nysef-f-250-super-duty-takes-a-big-win-in-value)
* [Intel (NASDAQ:INTC) Gets a Powerful Friend In JD Vance](https://www.tipranks.com/news/intel-nasdaqintc-gets-a-powerful-friend-in-jd-vance)

[tipranks_announcements](https://www.tipranks.com/news/company-announcements/vornado-realty-trust-leasing-success-amidst-financial-challenges)
