---
title: "Market Talk Roundup: Latest on U.S. Politics"
date: "2025-02-07 19:13:00"
summary: "The latest Market Talks covering U.S. politics. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.0613 ET - The euro looks vulnerable given President Trump's threats to implement tariffs on the EU, UBS Global Wealth Management analysts say in a note. Trump's focus regarding tariffs is likely to turn to..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The latest Market Talks covering U.S. politics. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.

0613 ET - The euro looks vulnerable given President Trump's threats to implement tariffs on the EU, UBS Global Wealth Management analysts say in a note. Trump's focus regarding tariffs is likely to turn to Europe next, they say. "Our base case is for select tariffs on EU autos and pharmaceuticals, drawing reciprocal retaliation." A negative reaction is "all but inevitable" for the euro. Beyond tariff considerations, the U.S. macroeconomic backdrop should prove supportive of the dollar. On monetary policy, the Federal Reserve should keep interest rates on hold while the European Central Bank continues to cut rates. UBS recommends selling the euro with a target of $1.0000 and stop loss of $1.0575. It currently trades at $1.0389. (renae.dyer@wsj.com)

0431 ET - The Polish zloty, Hungarian forint and Czech koruna rally on the prospect of a deal to end the war in Ukraine after the U.S. Trump administration mentioned progress on this, ING's Frantisek Taborsky says in a note. "The simultaneous rally in FX and rates suggests that positive sentiment on this [Ukraine] is likely driving the move." The zloty is particularly strong after Polish central bank Governor Adam Glapinski said Thursday there is no indication for interest rate cuts in 2025. The Polish zloty rises to its highest since April 2018 at 4.1860 per euro; the Hungarian forint hits a three-month high of 404.0331 per euro; and the Czech koruna rises to a six-week high of 25.0150 per euro, according to FactSet. (renae.dyer@wsj.com)

0358 ET - Oil prices rise in early trade after the U.S. imposed sanctions on an international network facilitating the shipment of Iranian crude to China to ramp up pressure on the Middle Eastern country. Brent crude is up 0.9% at $75 a barrel, while WTI rises 0.8% to $71.18 a barrel. The sanctions target entities and individuals in China, India and the UAE, as well as several vessels, according to the Treasury Department. Still, crude prices are headed for weekly losses after days of volatile trade, with demand concerns in focus amid a bigger-than-expected rise in U.S. crude stockpiles, U.S. President Trump's tariffs on China and push for increased domestic production. (giulia.petroni@wsj.com)

0232 ET - A rise in German exports at the end of last year suggests a rush to trade ahead of looming tariffs and doesn't promise a rebound in the country's manufacturing, Carsten Brzeski at Dutch bank ING tells investors in a note. Exports from Europe's largest economy unexpectedly rose in December, figures show Friday. That is likely to be a result of front-loading ahead of the tariffs that U.S. President Trump has threatened to impose on goods imported from the EU, Brzeski says. Combined with separate data showing a slump in production, the structural weakness in the German economy, he says. "Industry has been and will remain a drag on German growth," Brzeski warns. (joshua.kirby@wsj.com; @joshualeokirby)

1817 ET - President Trump wants to "close the carried-interest tax deduction loophole," said White House spokeswoman Karoline Leavitt. She listed the Trump administration's tax priorities that she said the president laid out to congressional leaders. Venture capital and other investors collect carried interest. They pay a preferential federal tax rate on this income, which some politicians call a "loophole." The National Venture Capital Association, a venture industry group, issued a statement opposing the call. "Carried interest encourages smart, high-risk investments in innovative high-growth startups. The 2017 Trump tax legislation kept venture investment flowing to emerging technologies like AI, crypto, life sciences, and national defense. A change now will disrupt that progress and disproportionately harm small investors, especially in middle America," the NVCA and its CEO Bobby Franklin said. (yuliya.chernova@wsj.com)

1723 ET - Risks posed by U.S. tariffs now appear largely priced into auto parts retailer ARB's stock, says Jefferies, upgrading it to hold from underperform. ARB's key factories are in Thailand and its largest market is the U.S. Analyst John Campbell notes the U.S. hasn't threatened tariffs on Thai imports, but Thailand's trade surplus with the U.S. could make it a future target. "This obviously poses a risk for ARB's export efforts into the U.S., which represent 40% of all ARB exports and 20% of our FY 2026 ARB group revenue" estimate, Jefferies says. Still, if tariffs are contained only to Chinese imports to the U.S. then ARB has a chance to expand margins or its market share, the bank adds. (david.winning@wsj.com; @dwinningWSJ)

1446 ET - Peloton estimates that it would see a 1% impact on the cost of goods for its connected fitness products from President Trump's proposed tariffs on Canada, Mexico and China, CFO Liz Coddington says on a call with analysts. That's if the tariffs on imports from Mexico and Canada, which are paused for the moment, were to go into effect at the currently proposed rate of 25%, and mainly involve the company's apparel and its Precor brand, the CFO says. CEO Peter Stern says no Peloton branded hardware products are subject to the tariffs from China. (dean.seal@wsj.com)

1436 ET - After consecutive days of record closes, front-month gold futures fall back--slipping 0.5% to $2,856 a troy ounce. It's still the second-highest close in the front-month contract's history. Despite today's respite, analysts think gold will move even higher. "The uncertainty over trade and tariffs will continue to buoy gold prices," says ING Economics in a note. "If trade tensions intensify and we see more retaliatory measures, safe haven demand for gold will continue." The firm adds that gold ETF demand has also seen a burst in recent sessions, this after being constrained in 4Q. SPDR Gold is down 0.4%. (kirk.maltais@wsj.com)

1409 ET - News Corp has noticed a tangible increase in business confidence in the U.S. since November's election, CEO Robert Thomson says on a call with analysts. He attributes the improved sentiment to "the yoke of woke having been lifted." Thomson notes, though, that President Trump's tariff plans have shaken confidence some. This has in turn helped New Corp's business: "The uncertainty regarding the transactional tariffs is driving demand for Dow Jones Energy's insights and forecasting services as clients seek to understand the potential impact on global energy markets and investment opportunities," Thomson says. News Corp is the parent company of Dow Jones & Co., publisher of The Wall Street Journal and Dow Jones Newswires. (connor.hart@wsj.com)

1400 ET - Kenvue is considering potential pricing actions to cover Trump's 25% tariff proposals on Canada, Mexico and his levying of an additional 10% tariff on China, though the company isn't pulling the trigger while the tariff situation remains fluid, CFO Paul Ruh says on a call with analysts. "We have the playbook ready and we will be ready to take actions in the short-term and also in the long-term," the CFO says. Kenvue uses imports from Canada, Ruh says, and smaller amounts from China and Mexico. Kenvue's current guidance doesn't incorporate the impact of potential tariffs, Ruh says. (dean.seal@wsj.com)

1353 ET - Clorox's F2025 outlook doesn't include any potential impacts from tariffs, Chief Financial Officer Kevin Jacobsen said on a call with analysts earlier this week. Clorox should benefit from manufacturing products close to where they are used, Jacobsen says. The company reworked its supply chains during Covid, which should also reduce exposure to any potential tariffs, he adds. Jacobsen says Clorox is less exposed to tariffs "than you'd find at many other industries or other companies, just based on the nature of our portfolio." The company, which revised its full-year sales to be down 1% to up to 2% from flat to down 2%, will continue to work to minimize the effects of tariffs, he says. (connor.hart@wsj.com)

1305 ET - Hilton Worldwide CEO Chris Nassetta says on a call with analysts that President Trump's proposed tariffs are part of a larger trade negotiation strategy. "That doesn't mean there won't be tariffs," he says. "But my guess is that we will end up, in most cases, in a place where we get some form of trade deal done that will not involve major tariffs." Nassetta backs his belief that economic growth outlooks are stronger now than they were in the lead up to November's election. He adds that Hilton has aggressively diversified its supply chain in the five years since Covid, and the company feels pretty good about its ability to pivot and avoid any tariff-related headwinds. Shares rise 4.8%. (connor.hart@wsj.com)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250207004457:0/)
