---
title: "Bain Capital to Buy Mitsubishi Chemical's Pharma Business for More Than $3 Billion — Update"
date: "2025-02-07 19:07:00"
summary: "By Kosaku NariokaBain Capital has agreed to acquire Mitsubishi Chemical Group's pharmaceutical business for more than $3 billion, a deal that would allow the Japanese company to focus on its key chemical businesses.The U.S. investment company said Friday that it will buy Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma for about 510 billion yen,..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Kosaku Narioka

Bain Capital has agreed to acquire Mitsubishi Chemical Group's pharmaceutical business for more than $3 billion, a deal that would allow the Japanese company to focus on its key chemical businesses.

The U.S. investment company said Friday that it will buy Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma for about 510 billion yen, equivalent to $3.37 billion.

The drugmaker focuses in developing treatments for central nervous system disorders, inflammation, diabetes and metabolic diseases, as well as vaccines. Founded in Osaka in 1678, Tanabe employs more than 5,000 people globally.

Supported by Bain Capital, Tanabe plans to make significant investments in both internal product development and external licensing and acquisitions, the U.S. investment company said.

Mitsubishi Chemical has identified several focus areas, such as products to support vehicle electrification, chip-making and food production, as it shed a number of businesses over the past couple of years. The company said in November that it would look for the best partners for its pharmaceutical business in the long run.

The Japanese chemical company said Friday that it plans to use the proceeds to invest in growth, repay debt and improve shareholders' returns.

Mitsubishi Chemical said it tried to create synergies between Tanabe and the rest of the company after making the drugmaker a wholly owned subsidiary in 2020, but changes in chemical and pharmaceutical industries curbed that potential.

The Japanese company said large investments would be required to strengthen Tanabe's research and development capacity, but that wasn't feasible under its ownership. Disease areas that aren't covered by existing drugs are gradually shrinking, and the possibility of success in drug discovery isn't high, it said.

"Tanabe Pharma has been delivering innovative medicines to Japanese patients for centuries, and we are proud to partner" with it and support its next phase of growth, said Masa Suekane, a partner at Bain Capital Private Equity.

Foreign investment firms like Bain Capital have been riding a growing wave of Japanese mergers and acquisitions in recent years as big companies spin off noncore businesses or company managements opt to leave the public market.

Blackstone bought Takeda Pharmaceutical's consumer healthcare business for Y242 billion in 2021.

Mitsubishi Chemical's pharmaceutical business accounted for about 10% of the company's revenue in the year ended March 2024. Its best-selling drugs include Radicava for amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, which competes with Biogen's Qalsody.

Mitsubishi Chemical expects to book about Y95.0 billion in gains related to the sale in the July-September quarter, when the transaction is slated to be completed.

Core operating profit from its pharma business declined 1.6% to Y54.5 billion for the nine months ended December, while revenue rose 3.3% to Y349.1 billion, Mitsubishi Chemical said Thursday.

Write to Kosaku Narioka at kosaku.narioka@wsj.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250207004412:0-bain-capital-to-buy-mitsubishi-chemical-s-pharma-business-for-more-than-3-billion-update/)
