---
title: "German Industrial Production Ends 2024 on Weak Note as Sector Braces for Tariffs — Update"
date: "2025-02-07 17:13:00"
summary: "By Ed FranklIndustrial production in Germany sank in December, driven by a fall in output from the car industry, a further weak note for the troubled sector as it faces the threat of U.S. tariffs.Output declined 2.4% on month in December, German statistics agency Destatis said Friday, worse than the..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Ed Frankl

Industrial production in Germany sank in December, driven by a fall in output from the car industry, a further weak note for the troubled sector as it faces the threat of U.S. tariffs.

Output declined 2.4% on month in December, German statistics agency Destatis said Friday, worse than the 0.9% fall expected by economists in a poll compiled by The Wall Street Journal. Production fell 4.5% in 2024 as a whole.

The fall in December, more than offsetting the 1.3% growth in November, was driven by auto production, which contracted 10%. The car industry has continued to suffer from high energy prices, weak demand from China, and now faces workforce reductions at Volkswagen.

Energy-intensive production, which has struggled in recent years since the end of reliance on cheap Russian gas, declined 3.1% on month.

The industrial sector could face further slowdown from the effects of President Trump's proposed tariffs, given the U.S. is the top destination for Germany's goods exports. Trump has said that the U.S. will definitely raise tariffs on goods from the European Union.

The December data underline that industry remains the weak spot in the German economy, which is unlikely to change any time soon, Commerzbank economist Ralph Solveen says.

Production in the fourth quarter was almost 1% lower than in the third, an important reason why the German economy as a whole shrank by 0.2% in the final three months of the year, he added.

Write to Ed Frankl at edward.frankl@wsj.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250207003592:0/)
