---
title: "Today's Jobs Report Will Be Confusing. Here's What to Know. — WSJ"
date: "2025-02-07 17:14:00"
summary: "By Justin LahartThe January employment report could bring something that hasn't exactly been in short supply lately: a bit of confusion.The report will likely show the economy added 169,000 jobs, according to economists polled by The Wall Street Journal. That would be below December's increase of 256,000. But it would..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Justin Lahart

The January employment report could bring something that hasn't exactly been in short supply lately: a bit of confusion.

The report will likely show the economy added 169,000 jobs, according to economists polled by The Wall Street Journal. That would be below December's increase of 256,000. But it would still count as a solid gain-especially since the tally will probably be weighed down by job losses related to the Los Angeles fires as well as unusually cold weather in many parts of the country. Economists expect the unemployment rate to hold steady at 4.1%.

But the report will also contain revisions that will probably simultaneously show that 1) the number of U.S. jobs created was lower than has been previously reported, and 2) that the number of employed Americans was substantially higher.

If you think that makes no sense, you're in good company. There's a reason, though, and it's that these two numbers are based on two different sets of data.

\*The main jobs figures come from a large monthly survey of U.S. employers. Later, the Labor Department goes back and compares these survey numbers with more-complete county wage and employment data. So every February, when the Labor Department releases the January employment report, it raises or lowers its jobs figures through the March of the previous year.

In a preliminary report released in August, the Labor Department estimated its benchmark revision would cut 818,000 jobs from the March 2024 count. Based on the county data that has come out since then, economists generally think the actual revision will be somewhat lower than this estimate.

\*The unemployment rate and other labor-force statistics come from a separate survey of households. The household survey has shown much slower employment growth in recent years than the employer survey, but a separate revision will likely push these employment levels substantially higher.

That is because the Labor Department relies on population estimates from the Census Bureau to determine employment levels, as well as its figures including the number of unemployed people and how many people are out of the labor force. And in December the Census Bureau substantially raised its population estimates to reflect the surge in immigration that began in 2021.

The resulting changes to the Labor Department's household employment data will likely be breathtaking. Goldman Sachs economists estimate household employment will be revised up by 2.3 million people.

This item is part of a Wall Street Journal live coverage event. The full stream can be found by searching P/WSJL (WSJ Live Coverage).

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250207003596:0/)
