---
title: "Global Equities Roundup: Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-07 18:48:00"
summary: "The latest Market Talks covering Equities. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.1048 GMT - Indian shares edged lower, weighed by bank and technology stocks. Investors digested the market impacts of India's central bank kicking off its easing cycle, cutting its policy rate for the first time in..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The latest Market Talks covering Equities. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.

1048 GMT - Indian shares edged lower, weighed by bank and technology stocks. Investors digested the market impacts of India's central bank kicking off its easing cycle, cutting its policy rate for the first time in nearly five years on Friday. State Bank of India dropped 1.4% and ICICI Bank declined 1.2%. Tata Consultancy Services was off by 1.3% and Infosys shed 0.7%. Tata Steel was the best performer on the benchmark index in this session, gaining 4.3%. India's benchmark Sensex Index ended 0.25% lower at 77860.19. (sherry.qin@wsj.com)

1015 GMT - Amazon.com continues to innovate and raise the bar even as 4Q cloud-computing sales and the tech company's outlook for 1Q came below analysts' expectations, AJ Bell's Dan Coatsworth writes in a research note. "Fundamentally, Amazon remains in great shape," he says. The group can afford to try new things and even fail with some experiments because it generates significant cash flow, Coatsworth notes. This strength should be recognized by investors, he adds. Amazon shares are down 2.7% premarket at $232.33. (mauro.orru@wsj.com)

1008 GMT - Xiaomi's share gains on Friday could be supported by a strong re-rating of China's tech sector following the launch of DeepSeek in late January, says Leping Huang, chief technology analyst at Huatai Securities. The Chinese AI start-up's affordable yet powerful model has lowered the cost of AI adoption across various sectors since it surprised markets in January. Additionally, Xiaomi hired a senior staff member from DeepSeek a few months ago to lead their AI large language model team, which could help accelerate Xiaomi's edge AI development, Huang adds. (jiahui.huang@wsj.com; @ivy\_jiahuihuang)

0956 GMT - Amazon.com's big spending plans on artificial intelligence are worrying investors after DeepSeek showed that developing the technology doesn't necessarily require billions of dollars, AJ Bell's Dan Coatsworth writes in a research note. Amazon plans more than $100 billion in capital expenditure this year compared to about $78 billion spent last year as the tech giant ramps up investments on data centers, chips and networking gear for AI. "That's a huge outlay to stomach now and then a waiting game before it gets a positive financial return on the investment," Coatsworth says. Amazon shares are down 3% premarket at $231.75. (mauro.orru@wsj.com)

0956 GMT - Banco de Sabadell's fourth-quarter pretax profit was ahead of consensus, driven by higher-than-expected core revenues and lower-than-expected costs, RBC Capital Markets analyst Pablo de la Torre Cuevas says in a research note. The Spanish bank's result reflected an unexpected 50 million-euro reduction in taxes, helping quarterly net profit of 532 million euros exceed expectations of 453 million, the analyst says. RBC expects Sabadell to deliver resilient earnings in the coming years and to benefit from the anticipated recovery in Spanish lending. Sabadell shares trade down 0.7% at 2.39 euros. (pierre.bertrand@wsj.com)

0949 GMT - Although Ashmore Group's 1H outflows continued, there has been a persistent improvement as 2Q net outflows were just $400 million, Peel Hunt analysts Stuart Duncan and Robert Sage say. This in turn saw total assets under management falling just 1% to close at $48.8 billion, and Ebitda above consensus expectations at 34 million pounds, the analysts say in a note. Net management fees fell 17% to 68 million pounds, a reflection of lower AuMs and revenue margins moderating above expectations, which were offset by well-controlled costs, the analysts say. "Having faced significant challenges for some time, there remains a more positive tone to the outlook," the analysts say. Shares are down 0.5% at 170.70 pence and up 6.75% in the year-to-date. (anthony.orunagoriainoff@dowjones.com)

0940 GMT - Singapore's FTSE Straits Times Index rose 0.8% to close at 3861.42 as investors' mood stabilized. The overall risk environment was calmer than it was at the beginning of the week, IG's Yeap Jun Rong says in commentary. The temporary pause in U.S. tariff developments has offered some relief, the market strategist adds. Among the best performers on the benchmark index, Singapore Exchange climbed 10% and ST Engineering added 3.5%. CapitaLand Ascendas REIT rose 1.9% following its annual results. Meanwhile, Jardine Matheson Holdings fell 1.4% and Thai Beverage shed 1.0%. (ronnie.harui@wsj.com)

0940 GMT - Legal & General Group's U.S. insurance-businesses sale is a surprise as neither of the units were included in the company's corporate-investments unit set out in its capital markets event in June, RBC Europe analyst Mandeep Jagpal and associate Dawid Pych write. The unit was set up to oversee assets and businesses that the company decided didn't fit with its strategy. "The deal highlights to us that there remains significant upside to life-insurer valuations, which is being recognized by long-term investors," they say. Shares are up 6.8% at 255.10 pence and are leading FTSE 100 index gainers. (ian.walker@wsj.com.)

0933 GMT - China's equity market has yet to reflect the country's improving innovation capability and looks due for a rerating driven by the global attention on DeepSeek, HSBC analysts say in a research note. China's stock markets have so far been relatively unaffected by the additional 10% U.S. tariffs, which are well within market expectations, they say. HSBC estimates a 0.5% hit to net profits of CSI 300 companies for every 10% tariff increase on Chinese goods. Chinese companies with extensive overseas businesses have built factories outside the mainland and are therefore better positioned, the analysts say. Meanwhile, they note that China's economy showed more signs of a recovery during the Lunar New Year holidays, with the property market improving and overall holiday traffic volumes growing steadily. (sherry.qin@wsj.com)

0932 GMT - Kingdee International could turn profitable in 2025 after a likely small net loss for 2024, Jefferies analysts say in a research note. Kingdee is Jefferies's 2025 top pick in China's software sector as it's on track to deliver double-digit revenue growth this year. Market competition has become more benign in recent years, while Kingdee has gained significant market share in China's enterprise resource planning market since 2020, they say. Kingdee recently said it has integrated DeepSeek into its software-as-a-service platform. The analysts think DeepSeek is a much better and cheaper open-source model than previous ones, but it is too early to discuss the return on investment. Shares last ended 15% higher at HK$12.38. (sherry.qin@wsj.com)

0927 GMT - Amazon.com shares fall premarket after fourth-quarter cloud-computing sales and the tech giant's outlook for the first quarter came below analysts' expectations. Amazon stock closed 1.1% higher at $238.83 ahead of results Thursday. Shares fell post market and are down 3.8% premarket, touching a low of $229.24. Sales at Amazon Web Services, the group's cloud-computing unit, grew 19% to $28.79 billion, but missed a FactSet forecast of $28.82 billion. Meanwhile, Amazon guided for sales of between $151 billion and $155.5 billion in the first quarter, with operating profit between $14 billion and $18 billion. Analysts are forecasting net sales of $158.70 billion and operating profit of nearly $18.55 billion for the current quarter, according to FactSet. (mauro.orru@wsj.com)

0909 GMT - Malaysia's Kuala Lumpur Composite Index ended 0.4% higher at 1590.91. Gains were driven by buying in tech and construction stocks amid bargain hunting following a recent selloff, said Thong Pak Leng, vice president of equity research at Rakuten Trade. The KLCI is expected to trade between 1580 and 1600 next week, with focus on the construction, utilities and technology sectors, he said. Among gainers, YTL Power International added 6.5%, while Inari Amertron rose 12% amid better tech sentiment. Meanwhile, MISC Bhd. was 2.1% lower and Petronas Gas lost 1.8%. (yingxian.wong@wsj.com)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250207004195:0/)
