---
title: "The Morning Risk Report: U.S. to Dial Back Crackdown on Foreign Corruption, Russian Oligarchs to Fight Cartels"
date: "2025-02-07 20:10:00"
summary: "The Morning Risk Report: U.S. to Dial Back Crackdown on Foreign Corruption, Russian Oligarchs to Fight Cartels By Richard VanderfordGood morning. The U.S. Justice Department will shift its resources away from fighting traditional corporate corruption and Russian oligarchs toward the battle against drug cartels, new Attorney General Pam Bondi said.Bondi,..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The Morning Risk Report: U.S. to Dial Back Crackdown on Foreign Corruption, Russian Oligarchs to Fight Cartels By Richard Vanderford

Good morning. The U.S. Justice Department will shift its resources away from fighting traditional corporate corruption and Russian oligarchs toward the battle against drug cartels, new Attorney General Pam Bondi said.

Bondi, who was sworn in Wednesday, announced changes to the approach to foreign corruption prosecutions in one of a series of memos that outlined sweeping overhauls to the Justice Department's strategy.

The department will give priority to Foreign Corrupt Practices Act investigations touching on cartels and transnational criminal organizations, and shift its focus away from other types of FCPA probes, Bondi said in her memo.

Task Force KleptoCapture created under the Biden administration to enforce U.S. sanctions on Russian oligarchs will be disbanded, she said, along with some other kleptocracy-related initiatives. Resources devoted to those efforts will go to the fight against cartels and TCOs, Bondi said. Compliance

Brink's unit to pay $42 million to settle DOJ, Treasury claims.

A subsidiary of Brink's Co. has agreed to pay the U.S. government $42 million to settle claims it operated as an unregistered money-services business .

Brink's Global Services USA, which specializes in transporting high-value items, said Thursday it entered a non-prosecution agreement and would pay the sum over the next three years to the Justice Department and the Treasury Department's Financial Crimes Enforcement Network.

FinCEN appeals injunction in Texas case still blocking the Corporate Transparency Act.

The Justice Department, on behalf of the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, on Wednesday filed an appeal to a ruling issued by Texas District Judge Jeremy Kernodle last month that blocks the implementation of the Corporate Transparency Act, according to court records.

FinCEN asked the court to stay the injunction and said it would extend the filing deadline by 30 days if the stay is granted.

The CTA requires millions of companies to file ownership information to FinCEN. The Supreme Court ruled in favor of the Treasury Department last month in another case challenging the law, but Judge Kernodle's injunction remains in place.

Even as the rest of America is running away from diversity efforts, the NFL is digging in .

A judge on Thursday signed off on a temporary agreement that limits the sharing of sensitive Treasury data amid a dispute over access granted to Elon Musk's allies as he spearheads a sweeping review of government spending.

New class-action lawsuits are asking the courts to decide a question policymakers have been debating-without resolution-for years: whether private equity is too risky to play a role in Americans' retirements.

Bank stress tests now feature less stress .

Hong Kong will file a complaint against the U.S.'s additional 10% tariff with the World Trade Organization, claiming the levies violate WTO rules. Risk

Tariffs could lead to higher insurance prices for U.S. consumers, businesses.

Americans don't import insurance from Canada, Mexico or China, but it could nonetheless get more expensive for consumers and businesses amid U.S. tariff uncertainty.

Insurers have to pay to replace or repair cars, businesses and homes, and higher prices because of inflation-whether tariff-induced or otherwise-often lead them to pass the increased costs on to consumers. Personal auto insurance is most likely to be impacted, but commercial auto and other insurance lines could be impacted as well.

Panama accuses U.S. of lying about deal for free canal passage.

Panama's president accused the Trump administration on Thursday of lying about a deal that would give the U.S. Navy free access to the Panama Canal, intensifying tensions around negotiations about the future of the canal following President Trump's threats to seize it.

The diplomatic rupture began Wednesday night when the State Department issued a post on X declaring that Panama had agreed to give U.S. government vessels free passage through the canal, surprising Panama. The statement came after Secretary of State Marco Rubio held talks with Panamanian President José Raúl Mulino in Panama City this week to hammer out concessions for Trump.

Mexico is trying to halt an influx of American guns .

A subsidiary of Edison International said there may be a link between its equipment and two of the wildfires that raged in Southern California last month.

The Bank of England cut its key interest rate Thursday, a response to a troubling mix of stuttering economic growth, stubborn inflation and President Trump's tariff threats.

India's central bank has kicked off its easing cycle , cutting its policy rate for the first time in nearly five years as economic growth slows and inflation cools.

Bombardier expects to dodge the brunt of any effects from possible U.S. tariffs, yet the threat of a trade war provides enough uncertainty that the company pulled its guidance for the year.

The European Commission is reviewing elements of its flagship Green Deal environmental policy, as worries over rising costs and a lack of competitiveness with China and the U.S. grow within the continent.

Industrial production in Germany sank in December , driven by a fall in output from the car industry, a further weak note for the troubled sector as it faces the threat of U.S. tariffs.

Food prices slipped in January , driven by significantly cheaper sugar and vegetable oils, data from the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations showed on Friday. Executive Insights

Here is our weekly roundup of stories from across WSJ Pro that we think you'll find useful.

Brands are courting a new type of celebrity athlete : high-school kids.

Customs brokers, the invisible link between U.S. Customs and Border Protection and importers, are being inundated by calls from panicked clients about how to deal with shifting tariff policy.

With businesses unwilling to drop top dollar on unproven AI tools, AI software vendors are getting creative on new strategies to convince them to buy.

A series of lawsuits against companies that transferred pension liabilities to Apollo-owned insurer Athene are challenging private equity's role in retirement . What Else Matters When President Trump proposed to empty Gaza of close to two million Palestinians, he revived an idea that has long been taboo in mainstream Israeli politics.

One D.C. neighborhood is bearing the brunt of government job cuts.

House Republicans wrapped up a more than four-hour meeting at the White House on Thursday saying that they had closed gaps in their own internal disagreements over extending expiring tax cuts and cutting spending, and indicated details of a deal could be announced as soon as Friday. About Us

Follow us on X at @WSJRisk . Follow Risk & Compliance editor David Smagalla @DSmagalla\_DJ and reporters Mengqi Sun @\_MengqiSun and Richard Vanderford @VanderfordRich .

You can reach us by replying to any newsletter, or email David at [david.smagalla@wsj.com].

This article is a text version of a Wall Street Journal newsletter published earlier today.

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250207005238:0/)
