---
title: "News Highlights: Top Company News of the Day - Friday at 3 AM ET"
date: "2025-02-07 16:15:00"
summary: "Xiaomi Shares Hit All-Time High Amid Glowy OutlookXiaomi's shares hit a new intraday high in Hong Kong as optimism grew over the earnings outlook for the Chinese consumer-electronics specialist this year.Naver Posts Strong Quarterly Earnings, Record Annual RevenueThe South Korean internet giant posted stronger-than-expected fourth-quarter earnings and record annual revenue,..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

**Xiaomi Shares Hit All-Time High Amid Glowy Outlook**

Xiaomi's shares hit a new intraday high in Hong Kong as optimism grew over the earnings outlook for the Chinese consumer-electronics specialist this year.

**Naver Posts Strong Quarterly Earnings, Record Annual Revenue**

The South Korean internet giant posted stronger-than-expected fourth-quarter earnings and record annual revenue, driven by its core search platform and e-commerce businesses.

**Bain Capital to Buy Mitsubishi Chemical's Pharma Business**

The Japanese chemical company has agreed to sell its pharmaceutical business to Bain Capital for more than $3 billion, in a bid to focus on its key businesses.

**Danske Bank Launches $696 Million Buyback as Earnings Top Its Forecast**

The Copenhagen-based bank reported a rise in net profit that beat its expectation, said it is well-positioned for future growth.

**Tech Giants Double Down on Their Massive AI Spending**

Amazon, Google, Microsoft and Meta are pouring billions into artificial intelligence, undeterred by DeepSeek's rise.

**Amazon Earnings: Shares Fall After Sales Outlook Is Weaker Than Expected**

The company plans to allocate a record amount to capital expenditures to build artificial-intelligence infrastructure.

**State Farm Was All In on California-Until It Pulled the Plug Before the Fires**

The insurer aggressively grew in Los Angeles, despite getting overweight on fire risk, but decided to cut thousands of policies last year, adding to the state's home-insurance crisis.

**Musk's Politics Could Hurt Tesla's EV Sales. That Probably Won't Hurt the Stock.**

Though Tesla's shares doubled over the past 12 months, they've had a tough run since the inauguration. Investors are waiting to see if Elon Musk can keep the company's charmed run going.

**Why T-Mobile Is Trouncing Telecom-and Big Tech**

A government blunder and TV woes have helped lift the company's stock 54% in the past year. How to play it now.

**Pinterest's stock is soaring, as platform gets more users and hits its first $1 billion sales quarter**

Pinterest grows its monthly user base by 11% and quarterly sales top $1 billon for the first time.

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250207003218:0-news-highlights-top-company-news-of-the-day-friday-at-3-am-et/)
