---
title: "News Highlights: Top Global Markets News of the Day - Friday at 7 AM ET"
date: "2025-02-07 20:15:00"
summary: "Stock Futures Steady Ahead of Nonfarm PayrollsU.S. stock futures held were little changed ahead of monthly payrolls data..The Early Verdict on Tariffs: Bad Economics, Better PoliticsMarkets concluded tariffs on Mexico and Canada would hurt the economy and raise prices. But they got both countries to act.Europe Is Looking to Roll..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

**Stock Futures Steady Ahead of Nonfarm Payrolls**

U.S. stock futures held were little changed ahead of monthly payrolls data..

**The Early Verdict on Tariffs: Bad Economics, Better Politics**

Markets concluded tariffs on Mexico and Canada would hurt the economy and raise prices. But they got both countries to act.

**Europe Is Looking to Roll Back Climate Accounting Rules**

Changes would seek to ease companies' regulatory burden amid concerns over continent's competitiveness.

**The Drug Industry Is Having Its Own DeepSeek Moment**

It isn't just artificial intelligence. Chinese biotech companies are now developing drugs faster and cheaper than their U.S. counterparts.

**Why T-Mobile Is Trouncing Telecom-and Big Tech**

A government blunder and TV woes have helped lift the company's stock 54% in the past year. How to play it now.

**Fed might need to hold rates steady 'for quite some time,' Logan says**

Even inflation falling close to 2% in the coming months might not necessarily allow the Fed to cut rates soon, Logan said.

**Hong Kong to Challenge U.S. Tariffs on Imports in WTO Complaint**

The Hong Kong Special Administrative Region Government described the tariffs as "unreasonable measures" and "grossly inconsistent with the relevant WTO rules."

**German Industrial Production Ends 2024 on Weak Note**

Output declined 2.4% on month in December, driven by a fall in auto production, as the industrial sector faces the threat of a further slowdown from U.S. tariffs.

**Food Prices Fell in January on Cheaper Sugar, Vegetable Oils, UN Says**

An index tracking global prices for a basket of staple foods dropped 1.6%, driven by significantly cheaper sugar and vegetable oils.

**DeepSeek Breakthrough Fuels Rally in Chinese Tech Stocks**

The Hang Seng Tech Index, which tracks the 30 largest technology companies listed in the city, rose as much as 2.9% on Friday, reflecting a rise of more than 20% from its January low.

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250207005285:0-news-highlights-top-global-markets-news-of-the-day-friday-at-7-am-et/)
