---
title: "Oil prices head for third straight weekly fall amid tariff fears, U.S. supplies"
date: "2025-02-07 20:45:00"
summary: "By William WattsOil futures bounced Friday from 2025 lows, but were on track for a third straight weekly fall amid rising U.S. inventories and worries that higher U.S. tariffs on China will dent growth and crude demand.Price movesWest Texas Intermediate crude CL00 for March delivery CL.1 CLH25 rose 52 cents,..."
categories:
  - "MarketWatch"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "MarketWatch"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By William Watts

Oil futures bounced Friday from 2025 lows, but were on track for a third straight weekly fall amid rising U.S. inventories and worries that higher U.S. tariffs on China will dent growth and crude demand.

Price moves

* West Texas Intermediate crude CL00 for March delivery CL.1 CLH25 rose 52 cents, or 0.7%, to $71.13 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange, but was headed for a 1.9% weekly fall.
* April Brent crude BRN00 BRNJ25, the global benchmark, was up 55 cents, or 0.7%, at $74.84 a barrel on ICE Futures Europe, on track for a weekly decline of 1.1%.

Market drivers

WTI, the U.S. benchmark, fell toward $70 a barrel on Thursday, finding "strong dip buying" interest this morning, Ipek Ozkardeskaya, senior analyst at Swissquote Bank, said in a note. Both WTI and Brent ended Thursday at their lowest since Dec. 27.

Concerns over Trump trade policies after the imposition of an additional 10% tariff on China this week and uncertainty over other tariff moves threaten to "hammer global growth prospects and will probably support a deeper retreat in crude prices," she wrote, with a fall toward the $65 to 68 range now looking plausible.

Oil saw pressure earlier in the week after the U.S. Energy Information Administration reported Wednesday that commercial crude inventories climbed for a second week in a row, up 8.7 million barrels for the week that ended Jan. 31.

-William Watts

This content was created by MarketWatch, which is operated by Dow Jones & Co. MarketWatch is published independently from Dow Jones Newswires and The Wall Street Journal.

[MarketWatch](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_SN20250207008552:0/)
