---
title: "RCI to Host 1Q25 Conference Call on X Spaces on Monday, February 10"
date: "2025-02-07 22:04:00"
summary: "RCI to Host 1Q25 Conference Call on X Spaces on Monday, February 10HOUSTON--(BUSINESS WIRE)--February 07, 2025--RCI Hospitality Holdings, Inc. plans to file its 10-Q and report financial results for the fiscal 2025 first quarter ended December 31, 2024 after the market closes on Monday, February 10. The company will hold..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

RCI to Host 1Q25 Conference Call on X Spaces on Monday, February 10

HOUSTON--(BUSINESS WIRE)--February 07, 2025--

RCI Hospitality Holdings, Inc. plans to file its 10-Q and report financial results for the fiscal 2025 first quarter ended December 31, 2024 after the market closes on Monday, February 10. The company will hold a related conference call on X Spaces at 4:30 PM ET.

X Spaces Call & Presentation

* Hosted by RCI President and CEO Eric Langan, CFO Bradley Chhay, and Mark Moran of Equity Animal
* Call link: https://twitter.com/i/spaces/1zqKVjQVzjLKB (X log in required)
* Presentation link: https://www.rcihospitality.com/investor-relations/
* To ask questions during Q&A: Participants must join the X Space using a mobile device
* To listen only: Participants can access the X Space from a computer

There will be no other types of telephone or webcast access.

About RCI Hospitality Holdings, Inc. (X: @RCIHHinc)

With more than 60 locations, RCI Hospitality Holdings, Inc., through its subsidiaries, is the country's leading company in adult nightclubs and sports bars/restaurants. See all our brands at www.rcihospitality.com.

Forward-Looking Statements

This press release may contain forward-looking statements that involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause the company's actual results to differ materially from those indicated, including, but not limited to, the risks and uncertainties associated with (i) operating and managing an adult entertainment or restaurant business, (ii) the business climates in cities where it operates, (iii) the success or lack thereof in launching and building the company's businesses, (iv) cyber security, (v) conditions relevant to real estate transactions, and (vi) numerous other factors such as laws governing the operation of adult entertainment or restaurant businesses, competition and dependence on key personnel. For more detailed discussion of such factors and certain risks and uncertainties, see RCI's annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended September 30, 2024, as well as its other filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. The company has no obligation to update or revise the forward-looking statements to reflect the occurrence of future events or circumstances.

View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20250206949509/en/

CONTACT: Media & Investor Contacts

Gary Fishman and Steven Anreder at 212-532-3232 or gary.fishman@anreder.com and steven.anreder@anreder.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250207006669:0/)
