---
title: "Global Commodities Roundup: Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-07 22:15:00"
summary: "The latest Market Talks covering Commodities. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.0900 ET - U.S. natural gas futures hold their ground ahead of the weekend with colder temperatures expected across large parts of the U.S. in coming days. \"Overnight data maintained strong national demand next week as..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The latest Market Talks covering Commodities. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.

0900 ET - U.S. natural gas futures hold their ground ahead of the weekend with colder temperatures expected across large parts of the U.S. in coming days. "Overnight data maintained strong national demand next week as frosty air over the Northern Plains spreads south and eastward to cover much of the interior U.S., including lows of teens and 20s into northern Texas," forecaster NatGasWeather.com says in a note. Nymex natural gas is off 0.4% at $3.392/mmBtu, on track for a double-digit weekly gain thanks to the colder February outlook. (anthony.harrup@wsj.com)

0808 ET - At a time when the U.S. is becoming a less amicable trading partner, Canada's Keyera and AltaGas sign a deal that opens doors to new energy end-markets for Canadian oil. Keyera, a midstream operator, and AltaGas, an energy infrastructure firm, sign a 15-year tolling contract that increases energy export capacity by 12,500 barrels of liquified petroleum gas a day. With the looming threat of US tariffs, which would include a 10% tax on Canadian energy, this deal allows for Keyera to search out new markets for its energy, offering "its customers more diversified market access for LPGs, including premium Asian markets." (adriano.marchese@wsj.com)

0722 ET - Gold futures rise, sitting just below its all-time record. Futures are up 0.55% at $2,892.50 a troy ounce, just shy of the all-time high of $2,906, set on Wednesday. Rather than the usual price drivers--the strength of the U.S. dollar and interest rate expectations--it is safe-haven demand in politically turbulent times that drives the rally, Commerzbank analysts say. This particularly reflects uncertainties surrounding the policies of President Trump, they say in a note. A sharp rise in lease rates also indicates tension in the physical market. That said, there are already signs of an exaggeration, and a price correction in the coming weeks is likely, Commerzbank writes. Spot gold prices should trade at $2,700 an ounce by the middle of the year and $2,650 an ounce by the end of 2025, Commerzbank adds.(joseph.hoppe@wsj.com)

0634 ET - Aurubis is off to a solid start after a series of setbacks and headwinds in the primary smelting markets, Deutsche Bank Research analyst Bastian Synagowitz says in a research note. The German metals supplier posted first-quarter operating pretax earnings in line with expectations and a free-cash-flow that was significantly better than expected, the analyst says. "This should put the company well on track to achieve unchanged guidance." Shares trade 1.5% higher at 81.45 euros. (nina.kienle@wsj.com)

0604 ET - Base metal prices rise, with LME three-month copper up 1.25% at $9,405 a metric ton and LME three-month aluminum 0.5% higher at $2,638 a ton. Base metals have gained on week after President Trump's tariffs on Canada and Mexico were delayed for a month on Monday, easing initial fears of a supply shock and hit to demand. The national security angle of the tariff debates hasn't received much market attention yet, but Trump is planning to apply tariffs on strategic goods, including steel, aluminum and eventually copper, Citi analysts say in a note. Currently, copper on the U.S. commodities exchange Comex trades at a 6% premium over copper on the LME, which should move up to at least 10% and possibly more, Citi says. "We go long December Comex copper versus LME," Citi writes. (joseph.hoppe@wsj.com)

0516 ET - Palm oil ended higher amid strong vegetable oil prices. Strength in China's vegetable oil futures and continued expectations of reduced palm oil production in Malaysia pushed up prices of the commodity, Phillip Nova analyst Lim Tai An says in a note. Next week, investors will keep a close eye on Malaysia's official January supply and demand data as well as figures from the Solvent Extractors' Association of India, the analyst says. Buyers in India, the world's top importer of palm oil, have been favoring soybean oil over palm oil after prices of the latter surged last year. Now with palm oil's premium narrowed, hovering near par, traders will be watching for more clues on the importer's preference between the edible oil substitutes, Lim adds. The Bursa Malaysia Derivatives contract for April delivery rose by 102 ringgit to 4,505 ringgit a ton. (sherry.qin@wsj.com)

0430 ET - European natural-gas prices are on track to post weekly gains of nearly 3% driven by uncertainties on future supplies and a looming cold snap expected to further deplete stockpiles. The benchmark Dutch TTF is up 0.5% at 54.80 euros a megawatt hour in early trade, after breaking above 55 euros in the previous session. As of Wednesday, EU gas storage was 50.6% full--a level expected to make restocking a challenge ahead of next winter. Prices are also supported by investment funds maintaining bullish positions and Europe's increased need for liquefied natural gas volumes. "The market is desperately trying to attract sufficient LNG cargos, and the current price levels indicate a premium for LNG cargos to Europe compared to Asia," DNB Markets analysts say in a note. (giulia.petroni@wsj.com)

0426 ET - Gold futures rise, hovering just below all-time highs. Futures are up 0.6% at $2,894.20 a troy ounce, just below the all-time record of $2,906 set on Wednesday. The precious metal is up 1.7% on week and 8.5% in the year to date, as President Trump's tariff policies reignite fears of looming trade wars, BMI analysts say in a note. Trump's proposed 25% Mexican and Canadian tariffs were delayed Monday for a month after reaching agreements, though 10% additional Chinese tariffs proceeded. China vowed to retaliate with its own tariffs, to be implemented on Feb. 10. The resultant economic uncertainty and fears of inflationary policies have pushed investors into safe-haven assets like gold. Near-term, gold prices should remain elevated, as geopolitical uncertainties continue to benefit safe-haven demand, BMI adds. (joseph.hoppe@wsj.com)

0249 ET - Comex gold futures' upward movement is taking a minor pause, based on the daily chart, RHB Retail Research's Joseph Chai says in commentary. Although the relative strength index is sloping downward, which indicates slowing bullish momentum, the commodity remains above the 20- and 50-day simple moving averages, the analyst notes. Also, the precious metal posted a bearish candlestick with a long-legged shadow on Thursday, signaling that gold bulls still have the technical advantage, Chai says. During this consolidation phase, however, the commodity could pull back to test the $2,800/oz support level, he adds. Spot gold is 0.3% higher at $2,864.17/oz. (ronnie.harui@wsj.com)

2146 ET - Palm oil prices rise in early Asian trading, tracking gains in soybean oil overnight on the Chicago Board of Trade, AmInvestment Bank says in a note. Palm olein's strength on the Dalian Commodity Exchange is also likely supporting palm oil prices, it adds. Market participants expect increased palm oil purchases from Pakistan and Middle Eastern countries ahead of Ramadan, which starts in March, it says. AmInvestment Bank pegs CPO support at 4,314 ringgit/ton and resistance at 4,453 ringgit/ton. The Bursa Malaysia Derivatives contract for April delivery is 43 ringgit higher at 4,446 ringgit/ton. (yingxian.wong@wsj.com)

2139 ET - Copper is higher in early Asian trading after the world's largest copper producer, Chile, warned of tighter supply, according to ANZ research analysts in a commentary. Chile also expects higher demand from the energy transition and electrical networks, which could support copper prices, the analysts say. However, Chile's copper commission, Cochilco, noted that geopolitical tensions and U.S. tariffs remain downside risks, they add. The three-month LME copper contract is up 1.0% at $9,366.00 per ton. (tracy.qu@wsj.com)

2125 ET - Iron ore futures rise in the morning Asian session amid possible position adjustments by traders. Meanwhile, China's recent policy measures should support the iron ore and steel market in the short term, ANZ Research's commodity strategists say in a research report. However, a trade war is the biggest challenge to the market, they say. A loss of export-driven demand in China might hurt iron-ore demand, while supply growth has disappeared as producers are wary of soft demand and rising use of steel scrap, the strategists add. The most-traded May futures are 1.6% higher at CNY823.0/ton on the Dalian Commodity Exchange. (ronnie.harui@wsj.com)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250207006799:0/)
