---
title: "Global Forex and Fixed Income Roundup: Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-07 17:08:00"
summary: "The latest Market Talks covering FX and Fixed Income. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.0908 GMT - A weaker-than-expected inflation print from China could exacerbate pressure on the yuan while supporting demand for government bonds, potentially lowering yields further, says Hassan Fawaz, chairman of broker GivTrade. Expectations..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The latest Market Talks covering FX and Fixed Income. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.

0908 GMT - A weaker-than-expected inflation print from China could exacerbate pressure on the yuan while supporting demand for government bonds, potentially lowering yields further, says Hassan Fawaz, chairman of broker GivTrade. Expectations are for the inflation report, due Sunday, to show that the rate held at 0.1% on year, he says. Trade tensions between China and the U.S. could further pressure investor sentiment, weighing on the yuan, he adds. Tariffs imposed by Trump have raised concerns about economic growth, which could keep the outlook for the yuan bearish in the near term and maintain downward pressure on yields. (fabiana.negrinochoa@wsj.com)

0852 GMT - Yields on U.K. government bonds rise due to concerns about higher inflation keeping interest rates elevated. The Bank of England on Thursday cut interest rates but raised its inflation forecast for the third quarter to 3.7% from 2.8% in its November forecast. "The most striking announcement from the Bank of England [on Thursday] is not the cut in interest rates, but the prospect of inflation rising to 3.7% this year while its forecasts show the economy continuing to flirt with recession," AJ Bell's Laith Khalaf says in a note. The 10-year gilt yield rises 1 basis point to 4.472%, while eurozone bond yields are mostly slightly lower, Tradeweb data show. (miriam.mukuru@wsj.com)

0847 GMT - The euro could rise if the European Central Bank revises its estimate of the neutral rate higher, ING's Francesco Pesole says in a note. The neutral rate is a theoretical rate that neither stimulates nor slows economic growth, which the ECB will announce at 1200 GMT. ECB member Olli Rehn said Thursday that "we should not constrain our freedom of action because of a theoretical concept." Based on these comments and the fact that neutral rate projections embed much higher inflation than previously, the rate should be revised higher, Pesole says. When adding in a risk that U.S. jobs data at 1330 GMT could be weaker than expected, the euro could rise back to Wednesday's $1.0443 high. The euro rises 0.1% to $1.0400.(renae.dyer@wsj.com)

0844 GMT - According to the Halifax House Price Index, key indicators in the housing market look fairly positive despite waning consumer confidence and geopolitical uncertainties, RBC Capital Markets' Anthony Codling says in a note. January's average U.K. house price rose 0.7% to 295,270 pounds following December's 0.2% fall. This points to a resumption in house price momentum, which saw eight consecutive months of growth through November, Codling says. Current house prices are unlikely to change buyers' minds as the market's overall mood is one of stability rather than significant near-term rises or falls, he says. "There remains uncertainty around the broader macroeconomic outlook and mortgage rate path, but demand for homes continues to outstrip supply and house prices are rising despite stretched affordability." (anthony.orunagoriainoff@dowjones.com)

0843 GMT - India's central bank got its easing cycle off to a neutral start, contrary to Barclays economists' expectations that it would shift to an accommodative policy stance. Still, they continue to predict another cut in April, noting that February's decision was unanimous and comes alongside expectations for low growth in the near term and closer-to-target inflation. The RBI's focus seems to have shifted to supporting growth, emphasizing that continued disinflation and slower growth offers space for less restrictive policy. That contrasts with its December statement highlighting inflation risks and saying that the foundations for growth come from price stability, Barclays says. It continues to see the policy repo rate falling to 5.5% by March 2026 from 6.25% now. (fabiana.negrinochoa@wsj.com)

0759 GMT - The dollar trades steady in early European trade but could fall slightly if U.S. January nonfarm payrolls data at 1330 GMT are weaker, Swissquote Bank analyst Ipek Ozkardeskaya says in a note. The data could show growth in jobs and wages slowed while the unemployment rate held steady, she says. Annual revisions could also be adjusted downwards. In that case, "the week will end with the narrative that the U.S. jobs market is healthily slowing." That would allow the Federal Reserve to continue cutting interest rates slowly. Any dollar depreciation will remain limited against European currencies due to expectations for more rate cuts compared with the U.S. and safe-haven demand. The DXY dollar index is steady at 107.728. (renae.dyer@wsj.com)

0758 GMT - Eurozone government bond yields are little changed as markets await the European Central Bank's new estimate of neutral rate for potential clues on how far interest rates could fall. The neutral rate is a theoretical interest rate level which neither tightens nor stimulates the economy. "The announcement comes as the discussion on where the ECB rate should land intensifies after five cuts in the deposit rate to 2.75%," SEB Research's Erik Meyersson says in a note. With inflation expected at 2% this year, the ECB's executive board agrees that more cuts are likely, but exactly how many is difficult to say, the chief strategist says. The 10-year Bund yield rises 1 basis point to 2.376%, according to Tradeweb. (emese.bartha@wsj.com)

0737 GMT - Chinese banks likely issued CNY4.3 trillion in new yuan loans in January, up from CNY990 billion in December as they front-loaded lending quotas at the start of the year, according to a poll of economists by WSJ. That amount would be below the CNY4.92 trillion issued in January last year, signaling weakness in credit demand. The upcoming loan data might have been affected by the timing of the Lunar New Year holiday. Businesses suspended operations early this year as workers returned home. Meanwhile, M2--the broadest measure of money supply--likely rose 7.4% on year in January, up slightly from December's 7.3%. The People's Bank of China will likely release the data next week. (singaporeeditors@dowjones.com)

0736 GMT - U.S. tariffs are likely to have a wide-ranging impact on multiple assets, according to Benoit Anne, managing director at MFS Investment Management, in a commentary. Global equities have not yet factored in significant policy risks, anticipating negative implications from tariffs on stock prices, Anne notes. In terms of fixed income, the latest development is likely to further reduce the U.S. Federal Reserve's ability to ease policy going forward, given the potential one-off adjustment effect on U.S. domestic prices, Anne adds. Furthermore, Canadian energy producers and Midwest refiners are likely to face challenges due to tariffs, Anne says. Legal uncertainties, potential extensions to other regions, and government negotiations are also closely watched, Anne notes. (tracy.qu@wsj.com)

0732 GMT - A rise in German exports at the end of last year suggests a rush to trade ahead of looming tariffs and doesn't promise a rebound in the country's manufacturing, Carsten Brzeski at Dutch bank ING tells investors in a note. Exports from Europe's largest economy unexpectedly rose in December, figures show Friday. That is likely to be a result of front-loading ahead of the tariffs that U.S. President Trump has threatened to impose on goods imported from the EU, Brzeski says. Combined with separate data showing a slump in production, the structural weakness in the German economy, he says. "Industry has been and will remain a drag on German growth," Brzeski warns. (joshua.kirby@wsj.com; @joshualeokirby)

0720 GMT - The FTSE 100 is expected to open 22 points, or 0.3%, lower according to IG. The index closed 103 points, or 1.2%, higher to 8727 points Thursday. The Bank of England cut interest rates by 25 basis points to 4.5% Thursday, as expected. However, two members surprised the market by voting for a 50bp cut, weakening sterling and boosting the FTSE 100. Turning to Friday's agenda, the focus is on the U.S. nonfarm payrolls report at 1330 GMT as it could provide clues about the Federal Reserve's rate path. "We think that the employment picture will start to weaken from the second quarter, but for now will remain strong," Jefferies economist Mohit Kumar says in a note. (renae.dyer@wsj.com)

0710 GMT - China's consumer price index likely rose 0.4% on year in January, picking up from December's 0.1% increase on higher food demand around the Lunar New Year holiday, according to a poll of 11 economists by The Wall Street Journal. Food prices were likely driven by increased demand before and during the holiday, while some service prices also likely rose, economists say. The decline in China's factory-gate prices likely eased to 2.2% on year in January, improving from December's 2.3% drop, according to the poll. China's National Bureau of Statistics is due to release the data on Sunday.(singaporeeditors@dowjones.com)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250207003565:0/)
