---
title: "ALTAGAS AND KEYERA ANNOUNCE AGREEMENTS THAT LEVERAGE EACH COMPANY'S INFRASTRUCTURE TO DRIVE COMPETITIVE INDUSTRY SOLUTIONS"
date: "2025-02-07 20:00:00"
summary: "ALTAGAS AND KEYERA ANNOUNCE AGREEMENTS THAT LEVERAGE EACH COMPANY'S INFRASTRUCTURE TO DRIVE COMPETITIVE INDUSTRY SOLUTIONSCanada NewsWireCALGARY, AB, Feb. 7, 2025CALGARY, AB, Feb. 7, 2025 /CNW/ - AltaGas Ltd. (\"AltaGas\") and Keyera Corp. (\"Keyera\") are pleased to announce long-term commercial agreements that leverage each company's infrastructure to provide value-added services to..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

ALTAGAS AND KEYERA ANNOUNCE AGREEMENTS THAT LEVERAGE EACH COMPANY'S INFRASTRUCTURE TO DRIVE COMPETITIVE INDUSTRY SOLUTIONS

Canada NewsWire

CALGARY, AB, Feb. 7, 2025

CALGARY, AB, Feb. 7, 2025 /CNW/ - AltaGas Ltd. ("AltaGas") and Keyera Corp. ("Keyera") are pleased to announce long-term commercial agreements that leverage each company's infrastructure to provide value-added services to customers and strengthen each company's long-term growth outlook. These agreements include Keyera entering into a long-term tolling agreement on AltaGas' global exports platform, AltaGas contracting fractionation services at Keyera Fort Saskatchewan ("KFS"), and AltaGas contracting access to Keyera's rail, storage, and logistics infrastructure. These agreements further de-risk both organizations' infrastructure investments and ensure more of Canada's vital energy products reach premium Asian markets.

Expanding Global Market Access with Long-Term Liquids Export Agreements

Keyera has entered a 15-year tolling contract at AltaGas' Ridley Island Energy Export Facility ("REEF") for 12,500 Bbls/d of liquified petroleum gases ("LPG") export capacity. The contract builds on the existing volumes that Keyera currently flows through AltaGas' Ridley Island Propane Export Terminal ("RIPET"). The new agreement will provide Keyera the ability to offer its customers more diversified market access for LPGs, including premium Asian markets, while providing AltaGas with long-term ratable export volumes and cash flows.

Inclusive of previously announced contracts, AltaGas has now reached its base long-term tolling target for the REEF project. Construction on REEF continues to progress in line with the delivery schedule and is targeted to come online near 2026 year-end. With only ten shipping days to the fastest growing LPG demand markets in Northeast Asia, REEF will efficiently deliver Canada's vital energy products to the world, while allowing Canadian LPGs to realize the strongest market price.

Long-Term Agreement for Fractionation Services

AltaGas has entered an 18-year agreement for 8,000 Bbls/d of fractionation capacity at KFS, which includes the natural gas liquids ("NGLs") that will be produced from AltaGas' Pipestone II plant currently under construction. These volume commitments will provide AltaGas long-term fractionation capacity for its Alberta Montney production. For Keyera, this provides long-term visibility for volumes to support further growth investments, including the proposed KFS Fractionation Unit III expansion project and the potential to expand additional rail and logistics offerings. AltaGas will have take-in-kind rights for LPG volumes from KFS and has entered into a services agreement providing the company access to Keyera's extensive rail, storage, and logistics network in Alberta's Industrial Heartland, which efficiently connects LPG volumes into AltaGas' global exports' network.

"We are pleased to partner with Keyera and execute long-term agreements that will improve the value of both companies' infrastructure and ensure we're collectively delivering the best outcomes for the Canadian energy industry" said Vern Yu, President and CEO of AltaGas. "These agreements strengthen the long-term growth and predictability of cash flows for both companies and strengthens Canada's link into key Asian markets."

"This collaboration with AltaGas strengthens our integrated value chain and creates more diversified sales opportunities for our customers, enabling them to consistently reach the highest value markets" said Dean Setoguchi, President and CEO of Keyera. "Together, we are working to make the energy industry in Canada more competitive."

About Keyera Corp.

Keyera operates an integrated Canadian-based energy infrastructure business with extensive interconnected assets and depth of expertise in delivering energy solutions. Its predominantly fee-for-service based business consists of natural gas gathering and processing; natural gas liquids processing, transportation, storage, and marketing; iso-octane production and sales; and an industry-leading condensate system in the Edmonton/Fort Saskatchewan area of Alberta. Keyera strives to provide high quality, value-added services to its customers across North America and is committed to conducting its business ethically, safely and in an environmentally and financially responsible manner.

About AltaGas

AltaGas is a leading North American infrastructure company that connects customers and markets to affordable and reliable sources of energy. The Company operates a diversified energy infrastructure business that is focused on delivering resilient and durable value for its stakeholders. From wellhead to tidewater, AltaGas' Midstream business is focused on providing its customers with safe and reliable service and connectivity that facilitates the best outcomes for their businesses. This includes global market access for North American LPGs, which provides North American producers and aggregators with the best netbacks for LPGs while delivering diversity of supply and stronger energy security to its downstream customers in Asia.

For more information please contact:

Keyera: Dan Cuthbertson, General Manager, Investor Relations (Dan\_Cuthbertson@keyera.com)

AltaGas: Jon Morrison, Senior Vice President, Corporate Development and Investor Relations (Jon.Morrison@altagas.ca) or Aaron Swanson, Vice President, Investor Relations (Aaron.Swanson@altagas.ca)

FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION

AltaGas:

This news release contains forward-looking information (forward-looking statements). Words such as "may", "can", "would", "could", "should", "will", "intend", "plan", "anticipate", "believe", "aim", "seek", "propose", "contemplate", "estimate", "focus", "strive", "forecast", "expect", "project", "target", "potential", "objective", "continue", "outlook", "vision", "opportunity" and similar expressions suggesting future events or future performance, as they relate to the Corporation or any affiliate of the Corporation, are intended to identify forward-looking statements. In particular, this news release contains forward-looking statements with respect to, among other things, business objectives, expected growth, results of operations, performance, business projects and opportunities and financial results. Specifically, such forward-looking statements included in this document include, but are not limited to, statements with respect to the following: AltaGas' belief that REEF will strengthen Canadian and Asia Pacific energy connectivity, improve global energy security and deliver positive outcomes for all stakeholders; the potential development of REEF and expected project activities, deliverables and timing thereof; expectation that AltaGas' development approach will provide the most capital efficient build, match energy export supply with throughput capacity, mitigate challenges and provide longer-term local employment opportunities; anticipation of successful collaboration with First Nations and other key stakeholders; the expected impact of REEF's structural advantage and outcomes therefrom, including significant increases in producers' LPG prices and time savings of North American West Coast LPG exports; the expectation that the US Gulf Coast and Arabian Gulf will continue to be the balancing markets for Asian markets; AltaGas' Midstream business focus, strategy and expected outcomes therefrom; and the importance of AltaGas' role in the larger energy ecosystem and global economy.

These statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results, events, and achievements to differ materially from those expressed or implied by such statements. Such statements reflect AltaGas' current expectations, estimates, and projections based on certain material factors and assumptions at the time the statement was made. Material assumptions include: anticipated timing of asset sale closings, effective tax rates, financing initiatives, degree day variance from normal, pension discount rate, the performance of the businesses underlying each sector, impacts of the hedging program, expected commodity supply, demand and pricing, volumes and rates, exchange rates, inflation, interest rates, credit ratings, regulatory approvals and policies, future operating and capital costs, capacity expectations, weather, frac spread, access to capital, planned and unplanned plant outages, timing of in-service dates of new projects and acquisition and divestiture activities, returns on investments, and dividend levels.

AltaGas' forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties which could cause results or events to differ from current expectations, including, without limitation: risks related to conflict in Eastern Europe; health and safety risks; operating risks; infrastructure; natural gas supply risks; volume throughput; service interruptions; transportation of petroleum products; market risk; inflation; general economic conditions; cyber security, information, and control systems; climate-related risks; environmental regulation risks; regulatory risks; litigation; changes in law; Indigenous and treaty rights; dependence on certain partners; political uncertainty and civil unrest; decommissioning, abandonment and reclamation costs; reputation risk; weather data; capital market and liquidity risks; interest rates; internal credit risk; foreign exchange risk; debt financing, refinancing, and debt service risk; counterparty and supplier risk; technical systems and processes incidents; growth strategy risk; construction and development; underinsured and uninsured losses; impact of competition in AltaGas' businesses; counterparty credit risk; composition risk; collateral; rep agreements; market value of common shares and other securities; variability of dividends; potential sales of additional shares; labor relations; key personnel; risk management costs and limitations; commitments associated with regulatory approvals for the acquisition of WGL; cost of providing retirement plan benefits; failure of service providers; risks related to pandemics, epidemics or disease outbreaks, including COVID-19; and the other factors discussed under the heading "Risk Factors" in the Corporation's Annual Information Form for the year ended December 31, 2022 and set out in AltaGas' other continuous disclosure documents.

Many factors could cause AltaGas' or any particular business segment's actual results, performance or achievements to vary from those described in this press release, including, without limitation, those listed above and the assumptions upon which they are based proving incorrect. These factors should not be construed as exhaustive. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should assumptions underlying forward-looking statements prove incorrect, actual results may vary materially from those described in this news release as intended, planned, anticipated, believed, sought, proposed, estimated, forecasted, expected, projected or targeted and such forward-looking statements included in this news release, should not be unduly relied upon. The impact of any one assumption, risk, uncertainty, or other factor on a particular forward-looking statement cannot be determined with certainty because they are interdependent and AltaGas' future decisions and actions will depend on management's assessment of all information at the relevant time. Such statements speak only as of the date of this news release. AltaGas does not intend, and does not assume any obligation, to update these forward-looking statements except as required by law. The forward-looking statements contained in this news release are expressly qualified by these cautionary statements.

Financial outlook information contained in this news release about prospective financial performance, financial position, or cash flows is based on assumptions about future events, including economic conditions and proposed courses of action, based on AltaGas management's (Management) assessment of the relevant information currently available. Readers are cautioned that such financial outlook information contained in this news release should not be used for purposes other than for which it is disclosed herein.

Additional information relating to AltaGas, including its quarterly and annual MD&A and Consolidated Financial Statements, AIF, and press releases are available through AltaGas' website at www.altagas.ca or through SEDAR at www.sedar.com

Keyera:

To provide readers with information regarding Keyera, including its assessment of future plans, operations and financial performance, certain statements contained herein relating to Keyera contain forward-looking information within the meaning of applicable Canadian securities legislation (collectively, "forward-looking information"). Forward-looking information relates to future events and/or Keyera's future performance. Forward-looking information represents predictions only; actual events or results may differ materially. Use of words such as "anticipate", "continue", "estimate", "expect", "may", "will", "project", "should", "plan", "intend", "believe" and similar expressions (including negatives thereof) are intended to identify forward-looking information.

All statements other than statements of historical fact contained herein are forward-looking information, including, without limitation, statements regarding Keyera's growth outlook and prospects; benefits to Keyera and its customers relating to the REEF tolling agreement including the ability to access premium Asian markets; impacts and benefits of the KFS fractionation contract on Keyera, the proposed KFS Fractionation Unit III expansion project and potential expansion of rail and logistics offerings; and potential additional volumes from AltaGas on the KAPS pipeline and at KFS.

Forward-looking information reflect management's current beliefs and assumptions with respect to such things as outlook for general economic trends, industry forecasts and/or trends, commodity prices, capital markets, and the government, regulatory and/or legal, environment and potential impacts thereof. In some instances, forward-looking information may be attributed to third party sources. Management believes its assumptions and analysis are reasonable and that expectations reflected in forward-looking information contained herein are also reasonable. However, Keyera cannot assure readers these expectations will prove to be correct, and differences could be material.

All forward-looking information involves known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results, events, levels of activity and achievements to differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking information. The principal risks, uncertainties and other factors affecting Keyera and its business are contained in Keyera's 2023 Year-End Report dated February 14, 2024 and in Keyera's Annual Information Form dated February 29, 2024, which are available on SEDAR+ at www.sedarplus.ca and on the Keyera website at www.keyera.com.

All forward-looking information contained herein is expressly qualified by this cautionary statement. Readers are cautioned they should not unduly rely on this forward-looking information and that information contained in such forward-looking information may not be appropriate for other purposes. Further, readers are cautioned that the forward-looking information contained herein is made as of the date hereof. Unless required by law, Keyera does not intend and does not assume any obligation to update any forward-looking information.

SOURCE Keyera Corp.

View original content to download multimedia: http://www.newswire.ca/en/releases/archive/February2025/07/c9222.html

Copyright CNW Group 2025

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250207004994:0/)
