---
title: "Avantor(R) Reports Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2024 Results"
date: "2025-02-07 19:05:00"
summary: "(11:05 GMT) *Avantor 4Q EPS 73c &gt;AVTR(11:05 GMT) *Avantor 4Q Sales $1.69B &gt;AVTR(11:05 GMT) Press Release: Avantor(R) Reports Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2024 ResultsAvantor(R) Reports Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2024 ResultsPR NewswireRADNOR, Pa., Feb. 7, 2025Fourth Quarter 2024Net sales of $1.69 billion, decrease of 2%; organic growth of..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

**(11:05 GMT)** \*Avantor 4Q EPS 73c >AVTR  
**(11:05 GMT)** \*Avantor 4Q Sales $1.69B >AVTR  
**(11:05 GMT)** Press Release: Avantor(R) Reports Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2024 Results

Avantor(R) Reports Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2024 Results

PR Newswire

RADNOR, Pa., Feb. 7, 2025

Fourth Quarter 2024

* Net sales of $1.69 billion, decrease of 2%; organic growth of 1%
* Net income of $500.4 million; Adjusted EBITDA of $307.7 million
* Diluted GAAP EPS of $0.73; adjusted EPS of $0.27
* Operating cash flow of $173.3 million; free cash flow of $222.1 million

Full Year 2024

* Net sales of $6.78 billion, decrease of 3%; organic decline of 2%
* Net income of $711.5 million; Adjusted EBITDA of $1,198.8 million
* Diluted GAAP EPS of $1.04; adjusted EPS of $0.99
* Operating cash flow of $840.8 million; free cash flow of $768.3 million

RADNOR, Pa., Feb. 7, 2025 /PRNewswire/ — Avantor, Inc. , a leading global provider of mission-critical products and services to customers in the life sciences and advanced technology industries, today reported financial results for its fourth fiscal quarter and year ended December 31, 2024.

"Our fourth quarter results highlight our team's commitment to commercial intensity, operational discipline, and enabling breakthrough therapies. As anticipated, we returned to growth in the fourth quarter and delivered sequential and year-over-year growth in adjusted EBITDA margin, adjusted EPS, and best-in-class free cash flow conversion. We grew our bioprocessing platform high-single-digits and expect continued strength driven by our focused execution and improving end market conditions," said Michael Stubblefield, President and Chief Executive Officer.

"Looking ahead, we're entering the year with strong momentum and a clear focus on innovation-driven revenue growth, margin expansion, and continued deleveraging. Our new operating model is driving greater efficiency, and our cost transformation program is ahead of schedule. With our industry-leading portfolio, resilient supply chain, and relentless efficiency, we are confident in achieving both our near-term and long-term financial goals," Stubblefield concluded.

Fourth Quarter 2024

For the three months ended December 31, 2024, net sales were $1,686.6 million, a decrease of 2% compared to the fourth quarter of 2023. Foreign currency translation and our Clinical Services divestiture had a negative impact, resulting in sales growth of 1% on an organic basis.

Net income increased to $500.4 million from $98.5 million in the fourth quarter of 2023, and adjusted net income was $183.9 million as compared to $166.7 million in the comparable prior period. Net Income margin was 29.7%. Adjusted EBITDA was $307.7 million and Adjusted EBITDA margin was 18.2%. Adjusted Operating Income was $279.4 million and Adjusted Operating Income margin was 16.6%.

Diluted earnings per share on a GAAP basis was $0.73, while adjusted EPS was $0.27.

Operating cash flow was $173.3 million, while free cash flow was $222.1 million.

Full Year 2024

For the full year ended December 31, 2024, net sales were $6,783.6 million, a decrease of 3% compared to 2023. Modest foreign currency translation benefit was offset by our Clinical Services divestiture, resulting in a sales decline of 2% on an organic basis.

Net income increased to $711.5 million from $321.1 million in 2023, and adjusted net income was $677.7 million as compared to $720.1 million in the comparable prior period. Net Income margin was 10.5%. Adjusted EBITDA was $1,198.8 million and Adjusted EBITDA margin was 17.7%. Adjusted Operating Income was $1,089.8 million and Adjusted Operating Income margin was 16.1%.

Diluted earnings per share on a GAAP basis was $1.04, while adjusted EPS was $0.99.

Operating cash flow was $840.8 million, while free cash flow was $768.3 million. Adjusted net leverage was 3.2x as of December 31, 2024.

Fourth Quarter 2024 — Segment Results

Laboratory Solutions

* Net sales were $1,125.8 million, a reported decrease of 5%, as compared to $1,182.4 million in the fourth quarter of 2023. Foreign currency translation and our Clinical Services divestiture had a negative impact resulting in sales decline of 1% on an organic basis.
* Adjusted Operating Income was $147.4 million as compared to $157.3 million in the comparable prior period. Adjusted Operating Income margin was 13.1%.

Bioscience Production

* Net sales were $560.8 million, a reported increase of 4%, as compared to $540.4 million in the fourth quarter of 2023. Sales also increased 4% on an organic basis.
* Adjusted Operating Income was $149.2 million, as compared to $132.0 million in the comparable prior period. Adjusted Operating Income margin was 26.6%.

Full Year 2024 — Segment Results

Laboratory Solutions

* Net sales were $4,610.1 million, a reported decrease of 3%, as compared to $4,738.3 million in 2023. Modest foreign currency translation benefit was offset by our Clinical Services divestiture resulting in sales declines of 2% on an organic basis.
* Adjusted Operating Income was $598.0 million as compared to $668.3 million in the comparable prior period. Adjusted Operating Income margin was 13.0%.

Bioscience Production

* Net sales were $2,173.5 million, a reported decrease of 3%, as compared to $2,228.9 million in 2023. Sales also declined 3% on an organic basis.
* Adjusted Operating Income was $558.2 million, as compared to $601.9 million in the comparable prior period. Adjusted Operating Income margin was 25.7%.

Adjusted Operating Income is Avantor's segment reporting profitability measure under generally accepted accounting principles and is used by management to measure and evaluate the performance of our Company's business segments.

Conference Call

We will host a conference call to discuss our results today, February 7, 2025, at 8:00 a.m. Eastern Time. The live webcast and presentation, as well as a replay, will be available on the investor section of Avantor's website.

About Avantor

Avantor(R) is a leading life science tools company and global provider of mission-critical products and services to the life sciences and advanced technology industries. We work side-by-side with customers at every step of the scientific journey to enable breakthroughs in medicine, healthcare, and technology. Our portfolio is used in virtually every stage of the most important research, development and production activities at more than 300,000 customer locations in 180 countries. For more information, visit avantorsciences.com and find us on LinkedIn, X (Twitter) and Facebook.

Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures

To evaluate our performance, we monitor a number of key indicators. As appropriate, we supplement our results of operations determined in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") with certain non-GAAP financial measures that we believe are useful to investors, creditors and others in assessing our performance. These measures should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for reported GAAP results because they may include or exclude certain items as compared to similar GAAP-based measures, and such measures may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. Rather, these measures should be considered as an additional way of viewing aspects of our operations that provide a more complete understanding of our business. We strongly encourage investors to review our consolidated financial statements included in reports filed with the SEC in their entirety and not rely solely on any one single financial measure or communication.

The non-GAAP financial measures used in this press release are sales growth (decline) on an organic basis, Adjusted Operating Income, Adjusted Operating Income margin, Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA margin, adjusted net income, adjusted EPS, adjusted net leverage, free cash flow and free cash flow conversion.

* Organic net sales growth (decline) eliminates from our reported net sales change the impacts of revenues from acquisitions and divestitures that occurred in the last year and changes in foreign currency exchange rates. We believe that this measurement is useful to investors as a way to measure and evaluate our underlying commercial operating performance consistently across our segments and the periods presented. This measure is used by our management for the same reason.
* Adjusted Operating Income is our net income or loss adjusted for the following items: (i) interest expense, (ii) income tax expense, (iii) amortization of acquired intangible assets, (iv) losses on extinguishment of debt, (v) charges associated with the impairment of certain assets, (vi) gain on sale of business, (vii) and certain other adjustments. Adjusted Operating Income margin is Adjusted Operating Income divided by net sales as determined under GAAP. We believe that these measures are useful to investors as ways to analyze the underlying trends in our business consistently across the periods presented. These measures are used by our management for the same reason. Additionally, Adjusted Operating Income is our segment reporting profitability measure under GAAP.
* Adjusted EBITDA is our net income or loss adjusted for the following items: (i) interest expense, (ii) income tax expense, (iii) amortization of acquired intangible assets, (iv) depreciation expense, (v) losses on extinguishment of debt, (vi) charges associated with the impairment of certain assets, (vii) gain on sale of business, (viii) and certain other adjustments. Adjusted EBITDA margin is Adjusted EBITDA divided by net sales as determined under GAAP. We believe that these measures are useful to investors as ways to analyze the underlying trends in our business consistently across the periods presented. These measures are used by our management for the same reason.
* Adjusted net income is our net income or loss first adjusted for the following items: (i) amortization of acquired intangible assets, (ii) losses on extinguishment of debt, (iii) charges associated with the impairment of certain assets, (iv) gain on sale of business, (v) and certain other adjustments. From this amount, we then add or subtract an assumed incremental income tax impact on the above-noted pre-tax adjustments, using estimated tax rates, to arrive at Adjusted Net Income. We believe that this measure is useful to investors as a way to analyze the business consistently across the periods presented. This measure is used by our management for the same reason.
* Adjusted EPS is our adjusted net income divided by our diluted GAAP weighted average share count adjusted for anti-dilutive instruments. We believe that this measure is useful to investors as an additional way to analyze the underlying trends in our business consistently across the periods presented. This measure is used by our management for the same reason.
* Adjusted net leverage is equal to our gross debt, reduced by our cash and cash equivalents, divided by our trailing 12-month Adjusted EBITDA (excluding stock-based compensation expense and including the expected run-rate effect of cost synergies and the incremental results of completed acquisitions and divestitures as if those acquisitions and divestitures had occurred on the first day of the trailing 12-month period). We believe that this measure is useful to investors as a way to evaluate and measure the Company's capital allocation strategies and the underlying trends in the business. This measure is used by our management for the same reason.
* Free cash flow is equal to our cash flows from operating activities, less capital expenditures, plus direct transaction costs and income taxes paid related to acquisitions and divestitures (as applicable) in the period. Free cash flow conversion is free cash flow divided by adjusted net income. We believe that these measures are useful to investors as they provide a view on the Company's ability to generate cash for use in financing or investing activities. These measures are used by our management for the same reason.

Reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures are included in the tables accompanying this release.

Forward-Looking and Cautionary Statements

This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and are subject to the safe harbor created thereby under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. All statements other than statements of historical fact included in this press release are forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements discuss our current expectations and projections relating to our financial condition, results of operations, plans, including our cost transformation initiative, objectives, future performance and business. These statements may be preceded by, followed by or include the words "aim," "anticipate," "assumption," "believe," "continue," "estimate," "expect," "forecast," "goal," "guidance," "intend," "likely, " "long-term," "near-term," "objective," "opportunity," "outlook," "plan, " "potential," "project," "projection," "prospects," "seek," "target," "trend," "can," "could," "may," "should," "would," "will," the negatives thereof and other words and terms of similar meaning.

Forward-looking statements are inherently subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions; they are not guarantees of performance. You should not place undue reliance on these statements. We have based these forward-looking statements on our current expectations and projections about future events. Although we believe that our assumptions made in connection with the forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot assure you that the assumptions and expectations will prove to be correct. Factors that could contribute to these risks, uncertainties and assumptions include, but are not limited to, the factors described in "Risk Factors" in our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K, and subsequent quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, as such risk factors may be updated from time to time in our periodic filings with the SEC.

All forward-looking statements attributable to us or persons acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by the foregoing cautionary statements. In addition, all forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this press release. We undertake no obligations to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise other than as required under the federal securities laws.

Investor Relations Contact

Allison Hosak

Senior Vice President, Global Communications

Avantor

908.329.7281

Allison.Hosak@avantorsciences.com

Global Media Contact

Eric Van Zanten

Head of External Communications

Avantor

610-529-6219

Eric.VanZanten@avantorsciences.com

```
   
Avantor, Inc. and subsidiaries   
 Consolidated statements of operations   
   
                        Three months ended   
                           December 31,         Year ended December 31,   
                     ------------------------  -------------------------   
(in millions,   
except per share   
data)                   2024         2023          2024         2023   
                     -----------  -----------  ------------  -----------   
Net sales             $  1,686.6   $  1,722.8    $  6,783.6   $  6,967.2   
Cost of sales            1,123.7      1,152.4       4,504.3      4,603.4   
                     -----------  -----------  ------------  -----------   
   Gross profit            562.9        570.4       2,279.3      2,363.8   
Selling, general   
 and administrative   
 expenses                  371.4        387.1       1,641.1      1,506.6   
Impairment charges            --           --            --        160.8   
Gain on sale of   
 business                (446.6)           --       (446.6)           --   
                     -----------  -----------  ------------  -----------   
   Operating income        638.1        183.3       1,084.8        696.4   
Interest expense,   
 net                      (44.9)       (65.3)       (218.8)      (284.8)   
Loss on   
 extinguishment of   
 debt                      (4.4)        (1.0)        (10.9)        (6.9)   
Other (expense)   
 income, net               (4.6)          2.5         (1.2)          5.8   
                     -----------  -----------  ------------  -----------   
   Income before   
    income taxes           584.2        119.5         853.9        410.5   
Income tax expense        (83.8)       (21.0)       (142.4)       (89.4)   
                     -----------  -----------  ------------  -----------   
   Net income        $     500.4  $      98.5   $     711.5  $     321.1   
   
Earnings per share:   
   Basic             $      0.74  $      0.15   $      1.05  $      0.48   
   Diluted           $      0.73  $      0.15   $      1.04  $      0.47   
Weighted average   
shares   
outstanding:   
   Basic                   680.7        676.4         679.6        675.6   
   Diluted                 682.7        679.2         681.9        678.4   
   
   
Avantor, Inc. and subsidiaries   
 Consolidated balance sheets   
   
                                           December 31,      December 31,   
(in millions)                                  2024               2023   
                                         ----------------  -----------------   
Assets   
Current assets:   
   Cash and cash equivalents             $          261.9  $           262.9   
   Accounts receivable, net                       1,034.5            1,150.2   
   Inventory                                        731.5              828.1   
   Other current assets                             118.7              143.7   
                                         ----------------  -----------------   
      Total current assets                        2,146.6            2,384.9   
Property, plant and equipment, net                  708.1              737.5   
Other intangible assets, net                      3,360.2            3,775.3   
Goodwill, net                                     5,539.2            5,716.7   
Other assets                                        360.4              358.3   
                                         ----------------  -----------------   
   Total assets                            $     12,114.5    $      12,972.7   
                                         ================  =================   
Liabilities and stockholders' equity   
Current liabilities:   
   Current portion of debt               $          821.1  $           259.9   
   Accounts payable                                 662.8              625.9   
   Employee-related liabilities                     168.2              133.1   
   Accrued interest                                  48.6               50.2   
   Other current liabilities                        306.8              411.2   
                                         ----------------  -----------------   
      Total current liabilities                   2,007.5            1,480.3   
Debt, net of current portion                      3,234.7            5,276.7   
Deferred income tax liabilities                     557.3              612.8   
Other liabilities                                   358.3              350.3   
                                         ----------------  -----------------   
   Total liabilities                              6,157.8            7,720.1   
                                         ----------------  -----------------   
Stockholders' equity:   
   Common stock including paid-in   
    capital                                       3,937.7            3,830.1   
   Accumulated earnings                           2,203.0            1,491.5   
   Accumulated other comprehensive loss           (184.0)             (69.0)   
                                         ----------------  -----------------   
      Total stockholders' equity                  5,956.7            5,252.6   
                                         ----------------  -----------------   
   Total liabilities and stockholders'   
    equity                                 $     12,114.5    $      12,972.7   
                                         ================  =================   
   
   
Avantor, Inc. and subsidiaries   
 Consolidated statements of cash flows   
   
                              Three months ended   
                                 December 31,        Year ended December 31,   
                           ------------------------  ------------------------   
(in millions)                 2024         2023         2024         2023   
                           -----------  -----------  -----------  -----------   
Cash flows from operating   
activities:   
   Net income              $     500.4  $      98.5  $     711.5  $     321.1   
   Reconciling   
   adjustments:   
      Depreciation and   
       amortization              100.9        100.6        405.5        402.3   
      Impairment charges            --           --           --        160.8   
      Gain on sale of   
       business                (446.6)           --      (446.6)           --   
      Stock-based   
       compensation   
       expense                    11.1          8.8         46.8         40.5   
      Non-cash   
       restructuring   
       charges                     0.5           --         16.9           --   
      Provision for   
       accounts   
       receivable and   
          inventory               19.3         22.0         75.1         84.5   
      Deferred income tax   
       expense (benefit)          28.4       (78.3)       (46.9)      (172.4)   
      Amortization of   
       deferred financing   
       costs                       2.6          3.1         11.2         13.0   
      Loss on   
       extinguishment of   
       debt                        4.4          1.0         10.9          6.9   
      Foreign currency   
       remeasurement   
       (gain)    loss            (3.3)          0.5        (0.3)        (2.6)   
      Pension termination   
       charges                     9.3           --          9.3           --   
      Changes in assets   
      and liabilities:   
           Accounts   
            receivable            11.7         21.9         45.9         77.0   
           Inventory               3.0         21.2       (18.5)         30.3   
           Accounts   
            payable               17.7       (43.8)         59.6      (139.6)   
           Accrued   
            interest              14.9         10.6        (1.6)          0.3   
           Other assets   
            and   
            liabilities        (100.7)         87.1       (37.7)         48.6   
      Other                      (0.3)        (1.6)        (0.3)        (0.7)   
                           -----------  -----------  -----------  -----------   
           Net cash   
            provided by   
            operating   
               activities        173.3        251.6        840.8        870.0   
                           -----------  -----------  -----------  -----------   
Cash flows from investing   
activities:   
   Capital expenditures         (27.5)       (50.6)      (148.8)      (146.4)   
   Proceeds from sale of   
    disposal group, net   
    of    cash sold              585.2           --        585.2           --   
   Other                           0.8          0.6          2.5          2.7   
                           -----------  -----------  -----------  -----------   
           Net cash   
            provided by   
            (used in)   
               investing   
            activities           558.5       (50.0)        438.9      (143.7)   
                           -----------  -----------  -----------  -----------   
Cash flows from financing   
activities:   
   Debt repayments             (756.8)      (188.1)    (1,341.8)      (846.0)   
   Payments of debt   
    refinancing fees and   
       premiums                     --           --           --        (2.3)   
   Proceeds received from   
    exercise of stock   
       options                     1.9          4.2         69.2         18.3   
   Shares repurchased to   
    satisfy employee tax   
       obligations for   
    vested stock-based   
    awards                       (0.4)        (0.2)        (8.6)       (13.7)   
                           -----------  -----------  -----------  -----------   
           Net cash used   
            in financing   
            activities         (755.3)      (184.1)    (1,281.2)      (843.7)   
                           -----------  -----------  -----------  -----------   
Effect of currency rate   
 changes on cash and cash   
    equivalents                 (22.1)          9.5       (21.5)          8.2   
Net change in cash, cash   
 equivalents and   
 restricted    cash             (45.6)         27.0       (23.0)      (109.2)   
Cash, cash equivalents   
 and restricted cash,   
    beginning of period          310.3        260.7        287.7        396.9   
                           -----------  -----------  -----------  -----------   
Cash, cash equivalents   
 and restricted cash, end   
 of    period              $     264.7  $     287.7  $     264.7  $     287.7   
                           ===========  ===========  ===========  ===========   
   
   
Avantor, Inc. and subsidiaries   
 Reconciliations of non-GAAP measures   
   
Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA Margin   
   
                          Three months ended December 31,           Year ended December 31,   
                              2024               2023               2024                2023   
                        -----------------  ----------------  ------------------  ------------------   
(dollars in millions,   
%    based on net   
sales)                     $        %         $        %         $         %         $         %   
                        -------  --------  -------  -------  ---------  -------  ---------  -------   
Net income              $ 500.4    29.7 %  $  98.5    5.7 %    $ 711.5   10.5 %    $ 321.1    4.6 %   
Amortization               74.2     4.4 %     75.0    4.4 %      299.8    4.4 %      307.7    4.4 %   
Loss on extinguishment   
    of debt                 4.4     0.3 %      1.0     -- %       10.9    0.2 %        6.9    0.1 %   
Integration-related   
    expenses(1)              --      -- %    (0.7)     -- %         --     -- %        7.6    0.1 %   
Restructuring and   
    severance   
 charges(2)                 0.5      -- %      8.5    0.5 %       82.8    1.2 %       26.5    0.4 %   
Transformation   
    expenses(3)            12.3     0.8 %      5.4    0.3 %       58.9    0.9 %        5.4    0.1 %   
Reserve for certain   
 legal    matters,   
 net(4)                     1.3     0.1 %      3.1    0.2 %        9.2    0.2 %        7.1    0.1 %   
Other(5)                  (3.5)   (0.3) %    (0.6)     -- %      (3.9)  (0.2) %      (2.8)     -- %   
Impairment charges(6)        --      -- %       --     -- %         --     -- %      160.8    2.3 %   
Gain on sale of   
    business(7)         (446.6)  (26.5) %       --     -- %    (446.6)  (6.6) %         --     -- %   
Pension termination   
    charges(8)              9.3     0.6 %       --     -- %        9.3    0.2 %         --     -- %   
   Income tax expense   
       (benefit)   
       applicable to   
       pretax   
       adjustments         31.6     1.8 %   (23.5)  (1.4) %     (54.2)  (0.8) %    (120.2)  (1.8) %   
                        -------  --------  -------  -------  ---------  -------  ---------  -------   
   Adjusted net income    183.9    10.9 %    166.7    9.7 %      677.7   10.0 %      720.1   10.3 %   
Interest expense, net      44.9     2.7 %     65.3    3.8 %      218.8    3.2 %      284.8    4.1 %   
Depreciation               26.7     1.6 %     25.6    1.4 %      105.7    1.6 %       94.6    1.3 %   
   Income tax   
       provision   
       applicable to   
       Adjusted Net   
       income              52.2     3.0 %  $  44.5    2.6 %    $ 196.6    2.9 %    $ 209.6    3.1 %   
                        -------  --------  -------  -------  ---------  -------  ---------  -------   
   Adjusted EBITDA      $ 307.7    18.2 %  $ 302.1   17.5 %  $ 1,198.8   17.7 %  $ 1,309.1   18.8 %   
                        =======  ========  =======  =======  =========  =======  =========  =======   
   
   
   
1.  Represents direct costs incurred with third parties and the accrual of a   
    long-term retention incentive to integrate acquired companies. These   
    expenses represent incremental costs and are unrelated to normal   
    operations of our business. Integration expenses are incurred over a   
    pre-defined integration period specific to each acquisition.   
2.  Reflects the incremental expenses incurred in the period related to   
    restructuring initiatives to increase profitability and productivity.   
    Costs included in this caption are specific to employee severance,   
    site-related exit costs, and contract termination costs. The expenses   
    recognized in 2024 represent costs incurred to achieve the Company's   
    publicly-announced cost transformation initiative.   
3.  Represents incremental expenses directly associated with the Company's   
    publicly-announced cost transformation initiative, primarily related to   
    the cost of external advisors.   
4.  Represents charges and legal costs, net of recoveries, in connection with   
    certain litigation and other contingencies that are unrelated to our core   
    operations and not reflective of on-going business and operating results.   
5.  Represents net foreign currency (gain) loss from financing activities and   
    other stock-based compensation expense (benefit).   
6.  Related to impairment of Ritter.   
7.  Related to gain on sale of our Clinical Services business.   
8.  Represents pension termination charges related to termination of our U.S.   
    Pension Plan.   
   
   
Avantor, Inc. and subsidiaries   
 Reconciliations of non-GAAP measures (continued)   
Adjusted Operating Income and Adjusted Operating Income Margin   
   
                          Three months ended December 31,           Year ended December 31,   
                        -----------------------------------  --------------------------------------   
                              2024               2023               2024                2023   
                        -----------------  ----------------  ------------------  ------------------   
(dollars in millions,   
%    based on net   
sales)                     $        %         $        %         $         %         $         %   
                        -------  --------  -------  -------  ---------  -------  ---------  -------   
Net income              $ 500.4    29.7 %  $  98.5    5.7 %    $ 711.5   10.5 %    $ 321.1    4.6 %   
Interest expense, net      44.9     2.7 %     65.3    3.8 %      218.8    3.2 %      284.8    4.1 %   
Income tax expense         83.8     4.8 %     21.0    1.2 %      142.4    2.1 %       89.4    1.3 %   
Loss on extinguishment   
    of debt                 4.4     0.3 %      1.0     -- %       10.9    0.2 %        6.9    0.1 %   
Other (expense)   
 income,    net             4.6     0.3 %    (2.5)  (0.1) %        1.2     -- %      (5.8)  (0.1) %   
                        -------  --------  -------  -------  ---------  -------  ---------  -------   
   Operating income       638.1    37.8 %    183.3   10.6 %    1,084.8   16.0 %      696.4   10.0 %   
Amortization               74.2     4.4 %     75.0    4.4 %      299.8    4.4 %      307.7    4.4 %   
Integration-related   
    expenses(1)              --      -- %    (0.7)     -- %         --     -- %        7.6    0.1 %   
Restructuring and   
    severance   
 charges(2)                 0.5      -- %      8.5    0.5 %       82.8    1.2 %       26.5    0.4 %   
Transformation   
    expenses(3)            12.3     0.8 %      5.4    0.3 %       58.9    0.9 %        5.4    0.1 %   
Reserve for certain   
 legal    matters,   
 net(4)                     1.3     0.1 %      3.1    0.2 %        9.2    0.2 %        7.1    0.1 %   
Other(5)                  (0.4)      -- %      0.2     -- %        0.9     -- %        0.3     -- %   
Impairment charges(6)        --      -- %       --     -- %         --     -- %      160.8    2.3 %   
Gain on sale of   
    business(7)         (446.6)  (26.5) %       --     -- %    (446.6)  (6.6) %         --     -- %   
                        -------  --------  -------  -------  ---------  -------  ---------  -------   
   Adjusted Operating   
       Income           $ 279.4    16.6 %  $ 274.8   16.0 %  $ 1,089.8   16.1 %  $ 1,211.8   17.4 %   
                        =======  ========  =======  =======  =========  =======  =========  =======   
   
   
   
1.  Represents direct costs incurred with third parties and the accrual of a   
    long-term retention incentive to integrate acquired companies. These   
    expenses represent incremental costs and are unrelated to normal   
    operations of our business. Integration expenses are incurred over a   
    pre-defined integration period specific to each acquisition.   
2.  Reflects the incremental expenses incurred in the period related to   
    restructuring initiatives to increase profitability and productivity.   
    Costs included in this caption are specific to employee severance,   
    site-related exit costs, and contract termination costs. The expenses   
    recognized in 2024 represent costs incurred to achieve the Company's   
    publicly-announced cost transformation initiative.   
3.  Represents incremental expenses directly associated with the Company's   
    publicly-announced cost transformation initiative, primarily related to   
    the cost of external advisors.   
4.  Represents charges and legal costs, net of recoveries, in connection with   
    certain litigation and other contingencies that are unrelated to our core   
    operations and not reflective of on-going business and operating results.   
5.  Represents other stock-based compensation expense (benefit).   
6.  Related to impairment of Ritter.   
7.  Related to gain on sale of our Clinical Services business.   
   
   
Avantor, Inc. and subsidiaries   
 Reconciliations of non-GAAP measures (continued)   
   
Adjusted earnings per share   
                               Three months ended        Year ended   
                                  December 31,          December 31,   
                              --------------------  --------------------   
(shares in millions)            2024       2023       2024       2023   
Diluted earnings per share   
 (GAAP)                       $    0.73  $    0.15  $    1.04  $    0.47   
Amortization                       0.11       0.11       0.44       0.45   
Loss on extinguishment of   
 debt                              0.01         --       0.02       0.01   
Integration-related expenses         --         --         --       0.01   
Restructuring and severance   
 charges                             --       0.01       0.12       0.04   
Transformation expenses            0.02       0.01       0.09       0.01   
Reserve for certain legal   
 matters, net                        --         --       0.01       0.01   
Other                                --         --     (0.01)         --   
Impairment charges                   --         --         --       0.24   
Gain on sale of business         (0.66)         --     (0.65)         --   
Pension termination charges        0.01         --       0.01         --   
Income tax expense (benefit)   
 applicable to pretax   
     adjustments                   0.05     (0.03)     (0.08)     (0.18)   
                              ---------  ---------  ---------  ---------   
   Adjusted EPS (non-GAAP)    $    0.27  $    0.25  $    0.99  $    1.06   
                              =========  =========  =========  =========   
   
Weighted average diluted   
shares outstanding:   
   Share count for Adjusted   
    EPS (non-GAAP)                682.7      679.2      681.9      678.4   
   
   
Avantor, Inc. and subsidiaries   
 Reconciliations of non-GAAP measures (continued)   
   
Free cash flow   
                               Three months ended        Year ended   
                                  December 31,          December 31,   
                              --------------------  --------------------   
(in millions)                   2024       2023       2024       2023   
                              ---------  ---------  ---------  ---------   
Net cash provided by   
 operating activities         $   173.3  $   251.6  $   840.8  $   870.0   
Capital expenditures             (27.5)     (50.6)    (148.8)    (146.4)   
Divestiture-related   
 transaction expenses and   
 taxes paid                        76.3         --       76.3         --   
                              ---------  ---------  ---------  ---------   
   Free cash flow (non-GAAP)  $   222.1  $   201.0  $   768.3  $   723.6   
                              =========  =========  =========  =========   
   
   
Adjusted net leverage   
   
                                                               December 31,   
(dollars in millions)                                              2024   
                                                            ------------------   
Total debt, gross                                                $     4,077.8   
Less cash and cash equivalents                                         (261.9)   
                                                            ------------------   
                                                                 $     3,815.9   
                                                            ------------------   
   
Trailing twelve months Adjusted EBITDA(1)                        $     1,149.7   
Trailing twelve months ongoing stock-based compensation   
 expense                                                                  47.0   
                                                                 $     1,196.7   
                                                            ------------------   
   
   Adjusted net leverage (non-GAAP)                                      3.2 x   
                                                            ==================   
   
   
   
1.  Represents the Adjusted EBITDA of Avantor for the trailing twelve-month   
    period minus the results attributable to the divested business as if such   
    divestiture had been completed on the 1st day of such trailing   
    twelve-month period, as contemplated by our debt covenants.   
   
   
Avantor, Inc. and subsidiaries   
 Reconciliations of non-GAAP measures (continued)   
   
Net sales by segment   
   
                                               Reconciliation of net sales growth (decline) to   
                                                      organic net sales growth (decline)   
                            December 31   
                                              ----------  -----------  -----------  ------------   
                                                                                      Organic   
                                                                                         net   
                                              Net sales     Foreign                     sales   
                                                growth      currency   Divestiture     growth   
(in millions)             2024       2023      (decline)     impact       impact      (decline)   
                        ---------  ---------  ----------  -----------  -----------  ------------   
Three months ended:   
 Laboratory Solutions   $ 1,125.8  $ 1,182.4  $   (56.6)  $     (3.4)  $    (42.4)   $    (10.8)   
 Bioscience Production      560.8      540.4        20.4        (1.8)           --          22.2   
                        ---------  ---------  ----------  -----------  -----------  ------------   
      Total             $ 1,686.6  $ 1,722.8  $   (36.2)  $     (5.2)  $    (42.4)   $      11.4   
                        =========  =========  ==========  ===========  ===========  ============   
Year ended:   
 Laboratory Solutions   $ 4,610.1  $ 4,738.3  $  (128.2)  $       5.5  $    (42.4)   $    (91.3)   
 Bioscience Production    2,173.5    2,228.9      (55.4)          1.8           --        (57.2)   
                        ---------  ---------  ----------  -----------  -----------  ------------   
      Total             $ 6,783.6  $ 6,967.2  $  (183.6)  $       7.3  $    (42.4)   $   (148.5)   
                        =========  =========  ==========  ===========  ===========  ============   
   
                                               Reconciliation of net sales growth (decline) to   
                                                      organic net sales growth (decline)   
                            December 31   
                                              ----------  -----------  -----------  ------------   
                                                                                      Organic   
                                                                                         net   
                                              Net sales     Foreign                     sales   
(dollars in millions,                           growth      currency   Divestiture     growth   
% based on net sales)     2024       2023      (decline)     impact       impact      (decline)   
                        ---------  ---------  ----------  -----------  -----------  ------------   
Three months ended:   
 Laboratory Solutions   $ 1,125.8  $ 1,182.4     (4.8) %      (0.3) %      (3.6) %       (0.9) %   
 Bioscience Production      560.8      540.4       3.8 %      (0.3) %         -- %         4.1 %   
                        ---------  ---------  ----------  -----------  -----------  ------------   
      Total             $ 1,686.6  $ 1,722.8     (2.1) %      (0.3) %      (2.5) %         0.7 %   
                        =========  =========  ==========  ===========  ===========  ============   
Year ended:   
 Laboratory Solutions   $ 4,610.1  $ 4,738.3     (2.7) %        0.1 %      (0.9) %       (1.9) %   
 Bioscience Production    2,173.5    2,228.9     (2.5) %        0.1 %         -- %       (2.6) %   
                        ---------  ---------  ----------  -----------  -----------  ------------   
      Total             $ 6,783.6  $ 6,967.2     (2.6) %        0.1 %      (0.6) %       (2.1) %   
                        =========  =========  ==========  ===========  ===========  ============   
   
   
Adjusted Operating Income by segment   
   
                         Three months ended December 31,         Year ended December 31,   
                        ---------------------------------  ------------------------------------   
(dollars in millions,   
%    represent   
Adjusted    Operating   
Income    margin)            2024              2023              2024               2023   
                        ---------------  ----------------  -----------------  -----------------   
                           $       %        $        %         $        %         $        %   
                        -------  ------  -------  -------  ---------  ------  ---------  ------   
Laboratory Solutions    $ 147.4  13.1 %  $ 157.3   13.3 %    $ 598.0  13.0 %    $ 668.3  14.1 %   
Bioscience Production     149.2  26.6 %    132.0   24.4 %      558.2  25.7 %      601.9  27.0 %   
Corporate                (17.2)    -- %   (14.5)     -- %     (66.4)    -- %     (58.4)    -- %   
                        -------  ------  -------  -------  ---------  ------  ---------  ------   
   Total                $ 279.4  16.6 %  $ 274.8   16.0 %  $ 1,089.8  16.1 %  $ 1,211.8  17.4 %   
                        =======  ======  =======  =======  =========  ======  =========  ======   
 
```

View original content to download multimedia:https://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/avantor-reports-fourth-quarter-and-full-year-2024-results-302370858.html

SOURCE Avantor and Financial News

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250207004379:0/)
