---
title: "Global Energy Roundup: Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-07 17:30:00"
summary: "The latest Market Talks covering Energy markets. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.0930 GMT - European natural-gas prices are on track to post weekly gains of nearly 3% driven by uncertainties on future supplies and a looming cold snap expected to further deplete stockpiles. The benchmark Dutch..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The latest Market Talks covering Energy markets. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.

0930 GMT - European natural-gas prices are on track to post weekly gains of nearly 3% driven by uncertainties on future supplies and a looming cold snap expected to further deplete stockpiles. The benchmark Dutch TTF is up 0.5% at 54.80 euros a megawatt hour in early trade, after breaking above 55 euros in the previous session. As of Wednesday, EU gas storage was 50.6% full--a level expected to make restocking a challenge ahead of next winter. Prices are also supported by investment funds maintaining bullish positions and Europe's increased need for liquefied natural gas volumes. "The market is desperately trying to attract sufficient LNG cargos, and the current price levels indicate a premium for LNG cargos to Europe compared to Asia," DNB Markets analysts say in a note. (giulia.petroni@wsj.com)

0858 GMT - Oil prices rise in early trade after the U.S. imposed sanctions on an international network facilitating the shipment of Iranian crude to China to ramp up pressure on the Middle Eastern country. Brent crude is up 0.9% at $75 a barrel, while WTI rises 0.8% to $71.18 a barrel. The sanctions target entities and individuals in China, India and the UAE, as well as several vessels, according to the Treasury Department. Still, crude prices are headed for weekly losses after days of volatile trade, with demand concerns in focus amid a bigger-than-expected rise in U.S. crude stockpiles, U.S. President Trump's tariffs on China and push for increased domestic production. (giulia.petroni@wsj.com)

0736 GMT - U.S. tariffs are likely to have a wide-ranging impact on multiple assets, according to Benoit Anne, managing director at MFS Investment Management, in a commentary. Global equities have not yet factored in significant policy risks, anticipating negative implications from tariffs on stock prices, Anne notes. In terms of fixed income, the latest development is likely to further reduce the U.S. Federal Reserve's ability to ease policy going forward, given the potential one-off adjustment effect on U.S. domestic prices, Anne adds. Furthermore, Canadian energy producers and Midwest refiners are likely to face challenges due to tariffs, Anne says. Legal uncertainties, potential extensions to other regions, and government negotiations are also closely watched, Anne notes. (tracy.qu@wsj.com)

0629 GMT - HD Hyundai Mipo, a South Korean medium-range oil tanker maker, may not benefit from U.S. crude output increases, Nomura analyst Eon Hwang writes in a note. The increases won't likely lead to a rise in shipping trade for U.S. refineries, which are already on full utilization, Hwang says. He also says the U.S.-proposed large oceangoing merchant fleet may not need new vessels but can be enrolled with existing ones until 2029. He cuts his 2025 operating-profit forecast for the company by 17%. Nomura downgrades its rating on the stock to neutral from buy and cuts its target price by 14% to KRW120,000. Shares are 4.7% lower at KRW110,200. (kwanwoo.jun@wsj.com)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250207003722:0/)
