---
title: "Reasons For Being Out Of Work Remain Consistent — Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-07 22:05:00"
summary: "0905 ET - Reasons for unemployment didn't change much in January--these numbers have been pretty stable for more than a year. Last month, 47% of unemployed people were out of work because they either lost a job, or finished temporary employment. 31% of the unemployed were looking for work after..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

0905 ET - Reasons for unemployment didn't change much in January--these numbers have been pretty stable for more than a year. Last month, 47% of unemployed people were out of work because they either lost a job, or finished temporary employment. 31% of the unemployed were looking for work after a previous break from working. 10% of workers are new entrants to the labor market looking for work for the first time. And 13% of unemployed people left their last job voluntarily while searching for a new one. (matt.grossman@wsj.com; @mattgrossman)

0856 ET - Despite the DOGE cost-cutting axe that began swinging through the federal workforce in late January, the federal government still added workers last month. Federal payrolls added 3,700 people in January, excluding the postal service (which added 5,700). Elsewhere in government, states added 2,000 people to their payrolls, but local governments remained a significant source of job growth, as they have over recent months consistently. Local governments added 21,000 workers in January. (matt.grossman@wsj.com, @mattgrossman)

0852 ET - The Canadian economy produces more jobs than expected in January and the unemployment rate fell. The report also indicates a strong start to GDP growth in 1Q, with Statistics Canada reporting hours worked jumped 0.9% in January from the previous month, or 2.2% from a year ago. GDP is hours worked times labor productivity. Government of Canada bond yields are up slightly following the solid employment data. The Bank of Canada projects 2% annualized growth in 1Q, although that forecast did not incorporate hefty tariffs on Canadian imports entering the U.S. (paul.vieira@wsj.com; @paulvieira)

0850 ET - Long-term unemployment in a cooling labor market has been a growing problem in recent months. But it seems to have improved a bit in January. The numbers of workers who have been unemployed for between 15 and 26 weeks, and for more than 27 weeks, both fell, while more unemployed people have now been out of work only less than a month. Now, people unemployed for less than a month make up 33.5% of the unemployed, up from 31.2% a month ago. The share unemployed for more than 6 months is at 21.1%, down from 22.4% a month ago. (matt.grossman@wsj.com, @mattgrossman)

0846 ET - Treasury yields rise as the U.S. jobs market looks tighter than expected. January payrolls decreased to 143,000 from an upwardly revised 307,000 in December. That was less jobs created than the 169,000 forecast by economists surveyed by The Wall Street Journal. The decline, however, could be attributed to wildfires and harsh weather. A more significant surprise was a drop in unemployment to 4% from 4.1%, which could give space for the Fed to refrain from cutting interest rates for a while. The 10-year yield rises to 4.470% from 4.442% before the data. The two-year is at 4.243%. (paulo.trevisani@wsj.com; @ptrevisani)

0839 ET - In January, employment in goods-producing industries such as manufacturing and mining was flat, similar to December. Instead, services jobs, especially in customer-facing industries, drove most of the 143,000 overall job gains. The retain industry added 34,300 jobs, and healthcare and social assistance added 66,000. Healthcare in particular has remained one of the fastest-growing employment fields for some time. The government sector added 32,000 jobs last month. (matt.grossman@wsj.com, @mattgrossman)

0515 ET - Amazon.com continues to innovate and raise the bar even as 4Q cloud-computing sales and the tech company's outlook for 1Q came below analysts' expectations, AJ Bell's Dan Coatsworth writes in a research note. "Fundamentally, Amazon remains in great shape," he says. The group can afford to try new things and even fail with some experiments because it generates significant cash flow, Coatsworth notes. This strength should be recognized by investors, he adds. Amazon shares are down 2.7% premarket at $232.33. (mauro.orru@wsj.com)

0456 ET - Amazon.com's big spending plans on artificial intelligence are worrying investors after DeepSeek showed that developing the technology doesn't necessarily require billions of dollars, AJ Bell's Dan Coatsworth writes in a research note. Amazon plans more than $100 billion in capital expenditure this year compared to about $78 billion spent last year as the tech giant ramps up investments on data centers, chips and networking gear for AI. "That's a huge outlay to stomach now and then a waiting game before it gets a positive financial return on the investment," Coatsworth says. Amazon shares are down 3% premarket at $231.75. (mauro.orru@wsj.com)

0440 ET - Legal & General Group's U.S. insurance-businesses sale is a surprise as neither of the units were included in the company's corporate-investments unit set out in its capital markets event in June, RBC Europe analyst Mandeep Jagpal and associate Dawid Pych write. The unit was set up to oversee assets and businesses that the company decided didn't fit with its strategy. "The deal highlights to us that there remains significant upside to life-insurer valuations, which is being recognized by long-term investors," they say. Shares are up 6.8% at 255.10 pence and are leading FTSE 100 index gainers. (ian.walker@wsj.com.)

0427 ET - Amazon.com shares fall premarket after fourth-quarter cloud-computing sales and the tech giant's outlook for the first quarter came below analysts' expectations. Amazon stock closed 1.1% higher at $238.83 ahead of results Thursday. Shares fell post market and are down 3.8% premarket, touching a low of $229.24. Sales at Amazon Web Services, the group's cloud-computing unit, grew 19% to $28.79 billion, but missed a FactSet forecast of $28.82 billion. Meanwhile, Amazon guided for sales of between $151 billion and $155.5 billion in the first quarter, with operating profit between $14 billion and $18 billion. Analysts are forecasting net sales of $158.70 billion and operating profit of nearly $18.55 billion for the current quarter, according to FactSet. (mauro.orru@wsj.com)

0348 ET - The price gap between PDD Holdings' Temu and other U.S. e-commerce marketplaces will likely narrow due to U.S. trade policy changes, Citi analysts say in a note. Temu will also likely need to step up incentives to retain user engagement and shopping experience as the suspension of the "de miminis" exemption for packages from China could prolong the fulfillment period, the analysts say. Growth in Australia and Europe could partially mitigate the impact on U.S. operations, they note. PDD is projected to report 30% revenue growth for the final three months of 2024. The analysts note the forecast is low given the company's rapid growth in recent quarters. Citi keeps its neutral/high risk rating on the stock, and maintains its target price at $125. The ADRs last closed at $112.72. (tracy.qu@wsj.com)

0216 ET - Cognizant Technology Solutions remains one of Nomura's top picks in India's IT services sector, Abhishek Bhandari says in a research report. The U.S.-listed Indian company says it's experiencing all-round sustained momentum in large deals across industries and service lines, and seeing improvement in contract values, the analysts says. Cognizant also says it's winning market share in financial services. However, Nomura lowers its 2025-2026 EPS estimates for the company by 3%-5% to partly reflect slightly higher tax rates. It lowers the stock's target price to US$97.00 from US$100.00, and maintains a buy rating. Shares closed at US$87.09. (ronnie.harui@wsj.com)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250207006685:0/)
