---
title: "Global Energy Roundup: Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-07 22:00:00"
summary: "The latest Market Talks covering Energy markets. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.0900 ET - U.S. natural gas futures hold their ground ahead of the weekend with colder temperatures expected across large parts of the U.S. in coming days. \"Overnight data maintained strong national demand next week..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The latest Market Talks covering Energy markets. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.

0900 ET - U.S. natural gas futures hold their ground ahead of the weekend with colder temperatures expected across large parts of the U.S. in coming days. "Overnight data maintained strong national demand next week as frosty air over the Northern Plains spreads south and eastward to cover much of the interior U.S., including lows of teens and 20s into northern Texas," forecaster NatGasWeather.com says in a note. Nymex natural gas is off 0.4% at $3.392/mmBtu, on track for a double-digit weekly gain thanks to the colder February outlook. (anthony.harrup@wsj.com)

0818 ET - The 2.4% drop in Germany industrial activity in December cements the weak end to 2024 for the whole of the country's economy, according to ING's Carsten Brzeski. Industrial production remains about 10% below its prepandemic levels, as Germany's economy contracted for the second year in a row. Manufacturing capacity utilization is at lows comparable only to those seen during the financial crisis and the initial lockdowns of the pandemic, Brzeski says in a note. Even after December's strong increase, order books aren't filled enough to kick-start a much-needed turn in the inventory cycle, he says. "Add to this looming tariffs...and the outlook for German industry remains anything but rosy," he adds. (edward.frankl@wsj.com)

0808 ET - At a time when the U.S. is becoming a less amicable trading partner, Canada's Keyera and AltaGas sign a deal that opens doors to new energy end-markets for Canadian oil. Keyera, a midstream operator, and AltaGas, an energy infrastructure firm, sign a 15-year tolling contract that increases energy export capacity by 12,500 barrels of liquified petroleum gas a day. With the looming threat of US tariffs, which would include a 10% tax on Canadian energy, this deal allows for Keyera to search out new markets for its energy, offering "its customers more diversified market access for LPGs, including premium Asian markets." (adriano.marchese@wsj.com)

0733 ET - Orsted's new business plan is limited in scope and there appears to be limited headroom for execution issues, JPMorgan analysts William W. Wade and Joanna Li write. Seeking to blow past its recent poor performance, the Danish renewable-energy company updated its medium-term strategy alongside earnings. The plan doesn't feature fresh equity or new self-help measures but mainly involves capital-expenditure reductions and related cuts to Ebitda and capacity targets. The bank expects credit ratings to remain pressured and it is also concerned about political risk further affecting Orsted's U.S. business on top of any spillover effects from wider U.S.-Danish tensions. Shares trade 2.1% lower at 293.80 Danish kroner. (dominic.chopping@wsj.com)

0648 ET - Adnoc Gas has strong growth potential, its domestic margins are strengthening, and there is room for dividend growth, analysts at HSBC write. A new 10-year contract with Emirates Water and Electricity Company will boost earnings, they write. The analysts raise the stock's target price to 4.20 dirham from 4.10 dirham due to the attractive terms of the new contract. Shares trade down 1.13% at 3.50 dirham. (adam.whittaker@wsj.com)

0430 ET - European natural-gas prices are on track to post weekly gains of nearly 3% driven by uncertainties on future supplies and a looming cold snap expected to further deplete stockpiles. The benchmark Dutch TTF is up 0.5% at 54.80 euros a megawatt hour in early trade, after breaking above 55 euros in the previous session. As of Wednesday, EU gas storage was 50.6% full--a level expected to make restocking a challenge ahead of next winter. Prices are also supported by investment funds maintaining bullish positions and Europe's increased need for liquefied natural gas volumes. "The market is desperately trying to attract sufficient LNG cargos, and the current price levels indicate a premium for LNG cargos to Europe compared to Asia," DNB Markets analysts say in a note. (giulia.petroni@wsj.com)

0358 ET - Oil prices rise in early trade after the U.S. imposed sanctions on an international network facilitating the shipment of Iranian crude to China to ramp up pressure on the Middle Eastern country. Brent crude is up 0.9% at $75 a barrel, while WTI rises 0.8% to $71.18 a barrel. The sanctions target entities and individuals in China, India and the UAE, as well as several vessels, according to the Treasury Department. Still, crude prices are headed for weekly losses after days of volatile trade, with demand concerns in focus amid a bigger-than-expected rise in U.S. crude stockpiles, U.S. President Trump's tariffs on China and push for increased domestic production. (giulia.petroni@wsj.com)

0236 ET - U.S. tariffs are likely to have a wide-ranging impact on multiple assets, according to Benoit Anne, managing director at MFS Investment Management, in a commentary. Global equities have not yet factored in significant policy risks, anticipating negative implications from tariffs on stock prices, Anne notes. In terms of fixed income, the latest development is likely to further reduce the U.S. Federal Reserve's ability to ease policy going forward, given the potential one-off adjustment effect on U.S. domestic prices, Anne adds. Furthermore, Canadian energy producers and Midwest refiners are likely to face challenges due to tariffs, Anne says. Legal uncertainties, potential extensions to other regions, and government negotiations are also closely watched, Anne notes. (tracy.qu@wsj.com)

0129 ET - HD Hyundai Mipo, a South Korean medium-range oil tanker maker, may not benefit from U.S. crude output increases, Nomura analyst Eon Hwang writes in a note. The increases won't likely lead to a rise in shipping trade for U.S. refineries, which are already on full utilization, Hwang says. He also says the U.S.-proposed large oceangoing merchant fleet may not need new vessels but can be enrolled with existing ones until 2029. He cuts his 2025 operating-profit forecast for the company by 17%. Nomura downgrades its rating on the stock to neutral from buy and cuts its target price by 14% to KRW120,000. Shares are 4.7% lower at KRW110,200. (kwanwoo.jun@wsj.com)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250207006612:0/)
