---
title: "News Highlights: Top Company News of the Day - Thursday at 11 PM ET"
date: "2025-02-07 12:00:00"
summary: "Tech Giants Double Down on Their Massive AI SpendingAmazon, Google, Microsoft and Meta are pouring billions into artificial intelligence, undeterred by DeepSeek's rise.Amazon Earnings: Shares Fall After Sales Outlook Is Weaker Than ExpectedThe company plans to allocate a record amount to capital expenditures to build artificial-intelligence infrastructure.Take-Two Sticks With Financial..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

**Tech Giants Double Down on Their Massive AI Spending**

Amazon, Google, Microsoft and Meta are pouring billions into artificial intelligence, undeterred by DeepSeek's rise.

**Amazon Earnings: Shares Fall After Sales Outlook Is Weaker Than Expected**

The company plans to allocate a record amount to capital expenditures to build artificial-intelligence infrastructure.

**Take-Two Sticks With Financial Guidance. Expect GTA VI in the Fall.**

The company expects bookings of between $5.55 billion to $5.65 billion for the year. A rival, Electronic Arts, delivered downbeat news on bookings last month.

**Utility Probes Connection Between Deadly Eaton Fire, Inactive Power Line**

Southern California Edison is examining the role of an idle transmission line near the area where the fire started.

**Brink's Unit to Pay $42 Million to Settle DOJ, Treasury Claims**

The agreement settles claims that Brink's Global Services USA operated as an unregistered money-services business.

**Bombardier Likely to Avoid Brunt of Tariffs, CEO Says**

Bombardier expects to dodge the brunt of any effects from possible U.S. tariffs, yet the threat of a trade war provides enough uncertainty that the company pulled its guidance for the year.

**Vinci Posts Higher Earnings, Appoints Anjolras as CEO**

The French construction and infrastructure firm said net profit was EUR4.86 billion, above analysts' expectations of EUR4.67 billion, according to consensus estimates provided by Visible Alpha.

**L'Oreal Posts Increased Sales Despite Decline in China**

The French beauty giant said its sales amounted to EUR43.48 billion in 2024, up 5.6% on-year and 5.1% on a like-for-like basis.

**Naver Posts Strong Quarterly Earnings, Record Annual Revenue**

The South Korean internet giant posted stronger-than-expected fourth-quarter earnings and record annual revenue, driven by its core search platform and e-commerce businesses.

**Politico Draws DOGE's Ire, Signaling a Shakeout for Media with Major Government Customers**

An inside-the-Beltway must-read becomes a flashpoint in President Trump's pursuit of federal government-spending cuts.

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250206016951:0/)
