---
title: "Saab Brings Forward Capacity Investments to Meet Surging Defense Equipment Demand — Update"
date: "2025-02-07 15:32:00"
summary: "By Dominic ChoppingSTOCKHOLM--Saab said it would bring forward big investments to increase production capacity as it looks to meet continued high demand for military equipment.Global defense spending has surged following Russia's invasion of Ukraine as nations have donated military equipment to boost Ukraine's capabilities while restocking their own domestic arsenals.The..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Dominic Chopping

STOCKHOLM--Saab said it would bring forward big investments to increase production capacity as it looks to meet continued high demand for military equipment.

Global defense spending has surged following Russia's invasion of Ukraine as nations have donated military equipment to boost Ukraine's capabilities while restocking their own domestic arsenals.

The Swedish defense company said last month that it had continued to see increasing demand as European nations replenish their defense stocks, while tensions in the Middle East had deteriorated the security situation further.

It said Friday that demand for its products and systems remains high, and although the geopolitical security landscape is unusually uncertain, which makes it difficult to predict the future, it expects high demand throughout its portfolio.

Interest in its Gripen E fighter jet is high with several ongoing campaigns for fighter acquisitions, along with robust demand in ground combat, missile systems and training & simulation products, while customer demand for its surveillance portfolio is also strong.

Bringing forward investments to increases capacity will put some pressure on cash flow in the next few years, but it will enable the company to win additional opportunities and to better serve customers, it said.

Reflecting this, the company raised its organic sales growth target for the period between 2023 and 2027 to around 18% from around 15% and lowered its cumulative cash conversion target to at least 60% from at least 70% for the same period.

It said Friday that order bookings in the fourth quarter fell 44% to 17.56 billion Swedish kronor ($1.61 billion), below a FactSet analyst forecast of 21.48 billion kronor, while the order backlog stood at 187.22 billion kronor, up from 153.41 billion kronor a year earlier.

Order bookings for the fourth quarter of 2023 were boosted by price adjustments made to long-term orders while the company saw a drop in medium-sized orders for the same period of last year.

For 2025, it expects organic sales growth of 12% to 16%, against the 23.4% it achieved in 2024.

Growth in earnings before interest and taxes this year is expected to be higher than organic sales growth and operational cash flow is expected to be positive.

The company had pre-released preliminary sales and operating profit for the fourth quarter, but it said Friday that net profit in the quarter rose 17% to 1.44 billion kronor.

Sales rose 29% to 20.85 billion kronor, in line with the pre-release.

It proposed a dividend of 2.00 kronor, up from 1.60 kronor.

Write to Dominic Chopping at dominic.chopping@wsj.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250207002950:0/)
