---
title: "News Highlights: Top Financial Services News of the Day - Friday at 7 AM ET"
date: "2025-02-07 20:15:00"
summary: "Private-Equity Managers Persevere in Pitching First-Time FundsDespite a rough environment, a growing pipeline of independent sponsors is expected to launch debut funds in coming years, investors and placement agents say.State Farm Was All In on California-Until It Pulled the Plug Before the FiresThe insurer aggressively grew in Los Angeles, despite..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

**Private-Equity Managers Persevere in Pitching First-Time Funds**

Despite a rough environment, a growing pipeline of independent sponsors is expected to launch debut funds in coming years, investors and placement agents say.

**State Farm Was All In on California-Until It Pulled the Plug Before the Fires**

The insurer aggressively grew in Los Angeles, despite getting overweight on fire risk, but decided to cut thousands of policies last year, adding to the state's home-insurance crisis.

**Danske Bank Launches $696 Million Buyback as Earnings Top Its Forecast**

The Copenhagen-based bank reported a rise in net profit that beat its expectation, said it is well-positioned for future growth.

**Banco de Sabadell Lifts Shareholder Returns After Earnings Rise**

The bank posted record profit for last year and raised its target for shareholder returns as it seeks to resist a hostile takeover bid from BBVA.

**Legal & General to Sell U.S. Insurance Businesses in $2.3 Billion Deal**

The insurance company expects to return an extra $1.24 billion to shareholders via buybacks upon completion of the sale.

**Societe Generale Shares Jump After Results Beat Expectations**

The lender posted fourth-quarter results that beat analysts' expectations and has boosted payouts to shareholders.

**ING Hurt by Higher Loan Loss Provisions**

ING Groep net profit fell, missing market forecasts, after it booked loan loss provisions of EUR299 million compared with EUR86 million for the same period a year earlier.

**Blue Owl Bucks Competition From Banks**

The private-credit specialist sees an uptick in new M&A this year after a period focused on refinancing existing deals.

**Brink's Unit to Pay $42 Million to Settle DOJ, Treasury Claims**

The agreement settles claims that Brink's Global Services USA operated as an unregistered money-services business.

**Tariffs Could Lead to Higher Insurance Prices for U.S. Consumers, Businesses**

Americans don't import insurance from Canada, Mexico or China, but it could nonetheless get more expensive for consumers and businesses amid U.S. tariff uncertainty.

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250207005284:0-news-highlights-top-financial-services-news-of-the-day-friday-at-7-am-et/)
