---
title: "These Stocks Are Moving the Most Today: Amazon, Affirm, Pinterest, Take-Two, Bill Holdings, e.l.f. Beauty, Neurocrine Biosciences, and More — Barrons.com"
date: "2025-02-07 17:53:00"
summary: "By Joe WoelfelStock futures pointed slightly lower Friday ahead of the release of the U.S. jobs report for January.These stocks were poised to make moves Friday:Amazon.com was falling 2.9% in premarket trading after the tech and online retailing giant said it expected first-quarter revenue of $151 billion to $155.5 billion,..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Joe Woelfel

Stock futures pointed slightly lower Friday ahead of the release of the U.S. jobs report for January.

These stocks were poised to make moves Friday:

Amazon.com was falling 2.9% in premarket trading after the tech and online retailing giant said it expected first-quarter revenue of $151 billion to $155.5 billion, below analysts' expectations of $158.6 billion. Amazon said the guidance "anticipates an unusually large, unfavorable impact" of about $2.1 billion from foreign exchange rates. The company also said it expects first-quarter operating income of $14 billion to $18 billion, missing projections of $18.3 billion. Capital expenditures in 2025 were forecast at around $105 billion, driven by its artificial-intelligence data center buildout. For the fourth quarter, Amazon's cloud unit, AWS, posted revenue growth of 19% to $28.8 billion compared with expectations of $28.9 billion.

Affirm, the "buy now, pay later" company, was rising 17% after the "buy now, pay later" company reported fiscal second-quarter adjusted earnings of 23 cents a share, beating analysts' estimates that called for a loss of 16 cents. Revenue of $866 million also topped consensus of $807 million. Gross merchandise volume — which measures transactions on Affirm's platform — was $10.1 billion, higher than analysts' forecast of $9.64 billion. The company anticipates fiscal 2025 GMV of between $34.74 billion and $35.34 billion, compared with analysts' estimates of $34.95 billion.

Expedia reported fourth-quarter adjusted earnings that beat analysts' estimates and shares of the online travel agency rose 9.5% in premarket trading. The company said bookings rose in all three of its core consumer brands. Total gross bookings were up 13% in the quarter.

Cybersecurity company Fortinet rose 7.9% after reporting fourth-quarter earnings and revenue that topped Wall Street estimates and saying it expects 2025 revenue of $6.65 billion to $6.85 billion, compared with Wall Street expectations of $6.62 billion.

Bill Holdings sank 29% after issuing fiscal third-quarter revenue guidance that missed Wall Street estimates. The billing software company expects revenue in the period of between $352.5 million and $357.5 million, below expectations of $360.4 million.

Cloudflare reported fourth-quarter earnings and revenue that beat Wall Street forecasts and issued 2025 revenue guidance of $2.09 billion that met expectations. The cloud computing company was jumping 8.5% in premarket trading.

Videogame developer Take-Two Interactive Software was up 6.2% in premarket trading after reporting a narrower-than-expected fiscal third-quarter loss and reiterating it expects its fiscal-year revenue of between $5.57 billion and $5.67 billion. "We're really excited about what's in market now and what we believe will be coming in the rest of the calendar year and beyond," CEO Strauss Zelnick told Barron's said in an interview.

Pinterest jumped 20% after the photo-sharing platform posted better-than-anticipated fourth-quarter revenue of $1.15 billion, its first billion-dollar revenue quarter, and said global monthly active users rose by 11% from a year earlier to 553 million. The company also said it expects first-quarter revenue between $837 million and $852 million, up 13% to 15% year over year.

E.l.f. Beauty was down 25% after the cosmetics company reduced its fiscal-year forecast for sales and adjusted earnings, citing "softer than expected trends in January."

Neurocrine Biosciences, the biopharmaceutical company, fell 14% after its forecast for Ingrezza sales of $2.5 billion to $2.6 billion for 2025 missed analysts' expectations of $2.67 billion. Ingrezza is the company's movement disorder drug, which had 2024 sales of $2.3 billion.

Earnings reports are expected Friday from Fortive, Avantor, Plains All American Pipeline, Newell Brands, and Cboe Global Markets.

Write to Joe Woelfel at joseph.woelfel@barrons.com

This content was created by Barron's, which is operated by Dow Jones & Co. Barron's is published independently from Dow Jones Newswires and The Wall Street Journal.

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250207003864:0/)
