---
title: "Banc of California, Inc. Announces Quarterly Dividends"
date: "2025-02-07 19:00:00"
summary: "Banc of California, Inc. Announces Quarterly DividendsLOS ANGELES--(BUSINESS WIRE)--February 07, 2025--Banc of California, Inc. (the \"Company\") announced today that its Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.10 per share on its outstanding common stock. The dividend will be payable April 1, 2025, to stockholders of record as..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Banc of California, Inc. Announces Quarterly Dividends

LOS ANGELES--(BUSINESS WIRE)--February 07, 2025--

Banc of California, Inc. (the "Company") announced today that its Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.10 per share on its outstanding common stock. The dividend will be payable April 1, 2025, to stockholders of record as of March 14, 2025.

The Board of Directors also declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.4845 per depositary share on its 7.75% Fixed Rate Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series F. The dividend will be payable March 3, 2025, to stockholders of record as of February 19, 2025. The Series F depositary shares are traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the "Banc/PF" symbol.

The Company maintains a Dividend Reinvestment Plan (DRIP) which allows common stockholders to automatically acquire common shares at a 3% discount from the applicable market price. All registered common stockholders with holdings maintained at the Company's transfer agent, Computershare, are eligible to participate in the DRIP program. For more information on the Company's DRIP program, please contact Investor Relations at IR@bancofcal.com or (855) 361-2262.

About Banc of California, Inc.

Banc of California, Inc. is a bank holding company with over $33 billion in assets and the parent company of Banc of California. Banc of California is one of the nation's premier relationship-based business banks, providing banking and treasury management services to small-, middle-market, and venture-backed businesses. Banc of California is the largest independent bank headquartered in Los Angeles and the third largest bank headquartered in California and offers a broad range of loan and deposit products and services through 80 full-service branches located throughout California and in Denver, Colorado, and Durham, North Carolina, as well as through regional offices nationwide. The bank also provides full-stack payment processing solutions through its subsidiary, Deepstack Technologies, and serves the Community Association Management industry nationwide with its technology-forward platform, SmartStreet(TM) . The bank is committed to its local communities through the Banc of California Charitable Foundation, and by supporting organizations that provide financial literacy and job training, small business support, affordable housing, and more. For more information, please visit us at www.bancofcal.com.

View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20250206200896/en/

CONTACT: Investor Relations Inquiries:

Banc of California, Inc.

(855) 361-2262

Jared Wolff, (310) 424-1230

Joe Kauder, (310) 844-5224

Ann DeVries, (646) 376-7011

Media Contact:

Debora Vrana, Banc of California

(213) 999-4141

Deb.Vrana@bancofcal.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250207004270:0/)
