---
title: "Never Mind Amazon, Microsoft, Alphabet. Why the Stock Market Can Rise Without Them, and 4 Other Things to Know Today. — Barrons.com"
date: "2025-02-07 19:39:00"
summary: "Who needs Big Tech? Earnings from the Magnificent Seven--the group of megacap companies that have driven markets higher for the past two years--have been mostly disappointing but the S&amp;P 500 is still near record highs.Is that a sign of resilience or exuberance? It's probably a good thing. Corporate earnings, the..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Who needs Big Tech? Earnings from the Magnificent Seven--the group of megacap companies that have driven markets higher for the past two years--have been mostly disappointing but the S&P 500 is still near record highs.

Is that a sign of resilience or exuberance? It's probably a good thing. Corporate earnings, the economy, and politics are supporting the market for now. While all three factors are still in place, investors can relax.

Despite Mag 7 names such as Google-parent Alphabet and software titan Microsoft dropping after earnings reports, the broader picture is positive. So far, 78% of companies reporting results have beaten expectations, with an average positive surprise of 6.8% according to FactSet.

While sky-high spending on artificial intelligence is causing concern for some cloud-computing companies, it's largely good news for semiconductor, utilities and energy companies.

On the economic side, data largely supports the picture of a U.S. economy cooling but not falling off a cliff. That brought the yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note down to around 4.4% from its mid-January high of 4.8%--supporting valuations amid a stronger appetite for risk.

Finally, the tariff threat has receded on temporary deals with Mexico and Canada and a measured response from China to the imposition of levies. The market has also been reassured by Treasury Secretary Scott Bessent that the Trump administration won't interfere with the Federal Reserve.

So far, so good for a broader base of market growth beyond just a handful of tech companies. But kick away any of the three legs of market support and things could look much dicier. Friday's job report is the immediate challenge but the bigger driver of volatility will be when the 30-day tariff suspensions with Mexico and Canada expire. The current market calm could prove to be deceptive.

* Adam Clark

\*\*\*

Amazon's Cloud Unit Miss, Weaker Outlook Overshadow Earnings Beat

Amazon's fourth-quarter results offered a mixed picture of the business, with robust earnings that beat expectations, but slight misses on its most profitable segments. But capital spending on artificial technology projects is rising, and Amazon also offered a disappointing first-quarter outlook.

* The e-commerce and cloud computing giant reported fourth-quarter earnings of $1.86 a share and revenue of $187.8 billion, up 10.5% from a year ago. Revenue at Amazon Web Services, its cloud unit, grew 19% to $28.8 billion, slightly lower than expected.
* AWS represents only 15% of Amazon's revenue, but over half of its operating profit. AWS has a 36.9% operating profit margin, versus 6.6% for the rest of Amazon. Capital spending was $27.8 billion in the quarter, the most ever, as Amazon joins other tech companies racing to compete in AI.
* Executives told analysts that the fourth-quarter capital expenses were a reasonable representative of the four quarters to follow. CEO Andy Jassy said he expected uneven trends for the AWS division given capacity considerations and adoption rates, but added that the business would remain strong.
* Amazon's advertising business, the other fast-growing part of Amazon, rose 18% on the year to $17.3 billion. Like AWS, it narrowly missed analysts' expectations.

What's Next: Amazon's first-quarter revenue outlook increased 7% from 2024, to $153.3 billion at the midpoint, but fell well short of analyst forecasts. It sees operating profit of $16 billion at the midpoint, also below expectations.

* Angela Palumbo, Adam Levine, and Janet H. Cho

\*\*\*

Trump and Musk's Job and Spending Cuts Meet Roadblocks

President Donald Trump and Elon Musk's Department of Government Efficiency have swiftly moved to slash the federal government's size. But as the lawsuits pile up, federal judges are stopping the two or slowing them down. On Thursday, a Massachusetts court paused a job resignation program for federal workers.

* Senior District Judge George O'Toole Jr. ordered the government to pause its Feb. 6 deadline for workers to accept a deferred resignation offer pending another hearing on Monday. The ruling is a setback for the Trump administration, which sought to secure resignations by as much as 10% of the federal civilian workforce.
* Instead, less than 2%, or around 40,000, had accepted the offer as of Thursday afternoon, according to White House press secretary Karoline Leavitt. Strong pushback from labor unions and lawmakers likely muted the response to what initially sounded like a soft exit for those looking to leave.
* Late Wednesday, the Justice Department agreed to a proposed order that would prevent the Treasury Department from sharing sensitive financial data with DOGE. Two special government workers employed at Treasury associated with DOGE could continue to get "read-only" access to the information.
* At least two judges have temporarily halted efforts by the White House's Office of Management and Budget to freeze federal funding across the government. OMB actually rescinded its memo about the freeze after multiple lawsuits and widespread confusion as to how it would be implemented.

What's Next: DOGE has worked largely in secret and has rapidly changed its structure since the announcement of its creation. It has faced intense criticism and claims that it is provoking a constitutional crisis. The groundswell against Musk's efforts will make every additional step he wants to pursue more challenging.

* Anita Hamilton, Matt Peterson, and Joe Light

\*\*\*

Private Equity Is Booming, and Not Just For the Ultrawealthy

Private markets are booming and expected to reach more than $15 trillion this year, and the sector is no longer reserved for just the wealthiest of investors. There are new exchange-traded funds offering a wide swath of investors exposure to the asset class, and private equity firms are eyeing the $9 trillion 401(k) market.

* Whether it's a good idea depends on factors like the quality of the underlying assets, and there are many drawbacks to consider. Of that $15 trillion quoted by S&P Global, private equity accounts for over half. Private credit/debt and real assets -- commercial buildings and utilities   
   -- are growing rapidly.
* ISS Market Intelligence found that 64% of advisors who invest in alternatives used private credit. Private equity firms such as Blackstone, Ares Management, and Apollo Global Management constantly hunt for new capital to fund buyouts, extend credit, and acquire private assets, and the pool of assets keeps growing. M
* Most private investments are illiquid, requiring investors to tie up money for long periods. Funds could also be subject to "gating," or limiting investor redemptions after requests hit a certain threshold. This could be a particular issue for retirees.
* For the greater risk, private assets usually promise higher returns than publicly traded securities. Pricing is through an appraisal process, and returns come from changes in the appraised value over time, says Hal Ratner, head of research at Morningstar Retirement, who urges caution.

What's Next: An alternative is owning the stocks of private equity companies such as Blackstone, Apollo, and KKR. But these companies are sensitive to changes in interest rates, which impact their underlying asset values and financing costs. As private-asset values have soared, lots of money is now chasing what's left.

* Elizabeth O'Brien

\*\*\*

Honeywell Following GE, Splitting Into Three Businesses

Honeywell International is splitting into three separate companies after its board and CEO Vimal Kapur reviewed its portfolio, and after activist investor Elliott Investment Management pressured Honeywell to break up like General Electric did last year. The changes are expected by the second half of 2026.

* Honeywell, a 119-year-old maker of pharmaceutical packaging, automated control systems for buildings, and aircraft landing gear, will carve its aerospace business from its automation business, and continue the planned spinoff of its advanced-materials division. It is also selling its personal protective equipment business.
* Forming three independent, industry-leading companies would position each to pursue tailored growth strategies and unlock significant value, Kapur said. Its aerospace business would be one of the largest, publicly traded aerospace suppliers, with $15 billion in revenue last year.
* GE's dismantling could be a guidemap. The independent aerospace, energy, and healthcare businesses now have a combined market value nearly four times larger than when they were part of GE in 2022. GE's aerospace unit is valued at $215 billion, more than double GE's value before the split.
* Honeywell also reported fourth-quarter earnings and revenue that beat expectations, but its 2025 adjusted earnings forecast for earnings of $10.10 to $10.50 a share fell short of expectations, as did its sales guidance for $39.6 billion to $40.6 billion.

What's Next: Kapur said Honeywell would continue to shape its portfolio, with a pipeline of strategic bolt-on acquisition targets and plans to invest in its businesses. The second part of that statement shows that Kapur is aware of "deal limbo" risk — the risk that Honeywell stock gets stuck while investors await the spinoffs.

* Janet H. Cho and Al Root

\*\*\*

Do you remember this week's news? Take our quiz below to test your knowledge. Tell us how you did in an email to thebarronsdaily@barrons.com.

1. President Donald Trump's 25% tariffs on imports from Canada and Mexico are on pause for now. But with the 10% tariffs on China that are moving forward, how much of U.S. imports would they cover?

a. 20% b. 30% c. 40% d. 50%

2. The White House's proposed U.S. sovereign wealth fund could potentially be a key to TikTok finding a buyer to avoid a ban from U.S. app stores. There are 90 state-owned SWFs in the world collectively managing how much?

a. $5 trillion b. $8 trillion c. $11 trillion d. $14 trillion

3. Alphabet revenue rose 12% in the fourth quarter from the prior year, and capital spending on artificial intelligence projects is expected to ramp up to how much this year?

a. $25 billion b. $50 billion c. $75 billion d. $100 billion

4. Trading app Robinhood Markets suspended a new contract for betting on the Super Bowl, which is coming up this Sunday, after concerns by the CFTC. How much are Americans expected to legally bet on the big game?

a. Nearly $1.4 billion b. Nearly $1 billion c. Nearly $950 million d. Nearly $850 million

5. MicroStrategy, a company closely watched by investors for its Bitcoin strategy, has set a goal of buying $42 billion of the cryptocurrency. How much of Bitcoin did it buy in the fourth quarter?

a. $10 billion b. $10.5 billion c. $20 billion d. $20.5 billion

Answers: 1( c); 2( b); 3( c ); 4( a ); 5( d )

* Barron's staff

\*\*\*

* Newsletter edited by Liz Moyer, Brian Swint, and Callum Keown

This content was created by Barron's, which is operated by Dow Jones & Co. Barron's is published independently from Dow Jones Newswires and The Wall Street Journal.

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250207004684:0/)
