---
title: "Global Equities Roundup: Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-07 17:50:00"
summary: "The latest Market Talks covering Equities. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.0949 GMT - Although Ashmore Group's 1H outflows continued, there has been a persistent improvement as 2Q net outflows were just $400 million, Peel Hunt analysts Stuart Duncan and Robert Sage say. This in turn saw..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The latest Market Talks covering Equities. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.

0949 GMT - Although Ashmore Group's 1H outflows continued, there has been a persistent improvement as 2Q net outflows were just $400 million, Peel Hunt analysts Stuart Duncan and Robert Sage say. This in turn saw total assets under management falling just 1% to close at $48.8 billion, and Ebitda above consensus expectations at 34 million pounds, the analysts say in a note. Net management fees fell 17% to 68 million pounds, a reflection of lower AuMs and revenue margins moderating above expectations, which were offset by well-controlled costs, the analysts say. "Having faced significant challenges for some time, there remains a more positive tone to the outlook," the analysts say. Shares are down 0.5% at 170.70 pence and up 6.75% in the year-to-date. (anthony.orunagoriainoff@dowjones.com)

0940 GMT - Singapore's FTSE Straits Times Index rose 0.8% to close at 3861.42 as investors' mood stabilized. The overall risk environment was calmer than it was at the beginning of the week, IG's Yeap Jun Rong says in commentary. The temporary pause in U.S. tariff developments has offered some relief, the market strategist adds. Among the best performers on the benchmark index, Singapore Exchange climbed 10% and ST Engineering added 3.5%. CapitaLand Ascendas REIT rose 1.9% following its annual results. Meanwhile, Jardine Matheson Holdings fell 1.4% and Thai Beverage shed 1.0%. (ronnie.harui@wsj.com)

0940 GMT - Legal & General Group's U.S. insurance-businesses sale is a surprise as neither of the units were included in the company's corporate-investments unit set out in its capital markets event in June, RBC Europe analyst Mandeep Jagpal and associate Dawid Pych write. The unit was set up to oversee assets and businesses that the company decided didn't fit with its strategy. "The deal highlights to us that there remains significant upside to life-insurer valuations, which is being recognized by long-term investors," they say. Shares are up 6.8% at 255.10 pence and are leading FTSE 100 index gainers. (ian.walker@wsj.com.)

0933 GMT - China's equity market has yet to reflect the country's improving innovation capability and looks due for a rerating driven by the global attention on DeepSeek, HSBC analysts say in a research note. China's stock markets have so far been relatively unaffected by the additional 10% U.S. tariffs, which are well within market expectations, they say. HSBC estimates a 0.5% hit to net profits of CSI 300 companies for every 10% tariff increase on Chinese goods. Chinese companies with extensive overseas businesses have built factories outside the mainland and are therefore better positioned, the analysts say. Meanwhile, they note that China's economy showed more signs of a recovery during the Lunar New Year holidays, with the property market improving and overall holiday traffic volumes growing steadily. (sherry.qin@wsj.com)

0932 GMT - Kingdee International could turn profitable in 2025 after a likely small net loss for 2024, Jefferies analysts say in a research note. Kingdee is Jefferies's 2025 top pick in China's software sector as it's on track to deliver double-digit revenue growth this year. Market competition has become more benign in recent years, while Kingdee has gained significant market share in China's enterprise resource planning market since 2020, they say. Kingdee recently said it has integrated DeepSeek into its software-as-a-service platform. The analysts think DeepSeek is a much better and cheaper open-source model than previous ones, but it is too early to discuss the return on investment. Shares last ended 15% higher at HK$12.38. (sherry.qin@wsj.com)

0927 GMT - Amazon.com shares fall premarket after fourth-quarter cloud-computing sales and the tech giant's outlook for the first quarter came below analysts' expectations. Amazon stock closed 1.1% higher at $238.83 ahead of results Thursday. Shares fell post market and are down 3.8% premarket, touching a low of $229.24. Sales at Amazon Web Services, the group's cloud-computing unit, grew 19% to $28.79 billion, but missed a FactSet forecast of $28.82 billion. Meanwhile, Amazon guided for sales of between $151 billion and $155.5 billion in the first quarter, with operating profit between $14 billion and $18 billion. Analysts are forecasting net sales of $158.70 billion and operating profit of nearly $18.55 billion for the current quarter, according to FactSet. (mauro.orru@wsj.com)

0909 GMT - Malaysia's Kuala Lumpur Composite Index ended 0.4% higher at 1590.91. Gains were driven by buying in tech and construction stocks amid bargain hunting following a recent selloff, said Thong Pak Leng, vice president of equity research at Rakuten Trade. The KLCI is expected to trade between 1580 and 1600 next week, with focus on the construction, utilities and technology sectors, he said. Among gainers, YTL Power International added 6.5%, while Inari Amertron rose 12% amid better tech sentiment. Meanwhile, MISC Bhd. was 2.1% lower and Petronas Gas lost 1.8%. (yingxian.wong@wsj.com)

0858 GMT - Horizon Robotics, one of BYD's assisted driving chip suppliers, is likely to benefit from the company's adoption of ADAS systems in its mass-market cars, Daiwa analysts write in a note. BYD aims to install the ADAS system in 60% of its car models sold in 2025, they add. Among these models, the majority will come from the Dynasty and Ocean series, priced between CNY100,000 to CNY200,000, they say. In addition to BYD, other major automakers like SAIC, Chery, GAC, Li Auto, Chongqing Changan and Bosch are also using Horizon Robotics' chips, which will further boost the company's sales. Daiwa maintains a buy rating for the stock and raises its target price to HK$6.50 from HK$5.50. Shares last traded at HK$6.04.(jiahui.huang@wsj.com; @ivy\_jiahuihuang)

0856 GMT - Serco Group's 1 billion pound U.K. defense contract is an important win for the outsourcing company and plays to its strengths in managing people to processes, Shore Capital analyst Robin Speakman says in a note. The contract is due to start operating in 2027, although some revenue is expected to flow before then. However with costs ramping up, a negative EBIT hit of around 2 million pounds is expected in 2025, and of around a further 10 million pounds in 2026, Speakman says. "We expect the contract's margins to be at the higher end of those in the U.K. & Europe region--supporting Serco's development targets, so around a 6% EBIT margin for group," Speakman says. Shares are up 0.3% at 159.20 pence. (anthony.orunagoriainoff@dowjones.com)

0848 GMT - The price gap between PDD Holdings' Temu and other U.S. e-commerce marketplaces will likely narrow due to U.S. trade policy changes, Citi analysts say in a note. Temu will also likely need to step up incentives to retain user engagement and shopping experience as the suspension of the "de miminis" exemption for packages from China could prolong the fulfillment period, the analysts say. Growth in Australia and Europe could partially mitigate the impact on U.S. operations, they note. PDD is projected to report 30% revenue growth for the final three months of 2024. The analysts note the forecast is low given the company's rapid growth in recent quarters. Citi keeps its neutral/high risk rating on the stock, and maintains its target price at $125. The ADRs last closed at $112.72. (tracy.qu@wsj.com)

0844 GMT - According to the Halifax House Price Index, key indicators in the housing market look fairly positive despite waning consumer confidence and geopolitical uncertainties, RBC Capital Markets' Anthony Codling says in a note. January's average U.K. house price rose 0.7% to 295,270 pounds following December's 0.2% fall. This points to a resumption in house price momentum, which saw eight consecutive months of growth through November, Codling says. Current house prices are unlikely to change buyers' minds as the market's overall mood is one of stability rather than significant near-term rises or falls, he says. "There remains uncertainty around the broader macroeconomic outlook and mortgage rate path, but demand for homes continues to outstrip supply and house prices are rising despite stretched affordability." (anthony.orunagoriainoff@dowjones.com)

0834 GMT - Hong Kong's Hang Seng Index closed 1.2% higher at 21133.54, led by technology stocks. The Hang Seng Tech Index, which tracks the 30 largest technology companies listed in the city, entered a bull market, rising as much as 2.9% before ending 1.8% higher. Lenovo and Xiaomi were among the top gainers, adding 6.3% and 4.7%, respectively. BYD increased 4.5%. The optimism over China's AI development has largely helped its tech companies shrug off tariff risks. "DeepSeek supports sentiment towards China tech" as it casts doubts over the U.S.'s dominance of the sector, Louis Luo of abrdn writes in a note. That can be "tactically bullish" for Chinese equities, he adds. (kimberley.kao@wsj.com)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250207003845:0/)
