---
title: "Nvidia Stock Is Slipping. But Investors Are Looking Past DeepSeek. — Barrons.com"
date: "2025-02-07 18:20:00"
summary: "By George GloverNvidia stock was giving up some of its gains Friday, but that shouldn't take too much shine off a solid week for the artificial-intelligence chip maker.Shares slipped 1% to $127.36 in premarket trading. Futures tracking the benchmark S&amp;P 500 were flat.As of Thursday's close, the stock was up..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By George Glover

Nvidia stock was giving up some of its gains Friday, but that shouldn't take too much shine off a solid week for the artificial-intelligence chip maker.

Shares slipped 1% to $127.36 in premarket trading. Futures tracking the benchmark S&P 500 were flat.

As of Thursday's close, the stock was up 4% over the past four days — meaning it had pared back a good chunk of its losses from the previous week, when the rapid rise of Chinese start-up DeepSeek's new AI model sparked a brutal selloff.

Big Tech earnings have helped ease fears that DeepSeek's chatbot, seemingly made on the cheap, would lead to a sharp slowdown in demand for Nvidia's chips. Google parent Alphabet committed to $75 billion worth of capital spending for 2025 earlier this week, and on Thursday the semiconductor company got a shout out from Amazon.com CEO Andy Jassy.

"Most AI compute has been driven by Nvidia chips, and we obviously have a deep partnership with Nvidia and will for as long as we can see into the future," Jassy said on a call with analysts after the e-commerce company reported its fourth-quarter earnings. Nvidia doesn't disclose its customers, but Amazon, Alphabet, and software giant Microsoft are believed to be among the biggest buyers of its chips.

Write to George Glover at george.glover@dowjones.com

This content was created by Barron's, which is operated by Dow Jones & Co. Barron's is published independently from Dow Jones Newswires and The Wall Street Journal.

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250207004031:0/)
