---
title: "24 mutual funds and ETFs managed by TD Asset Management Inc. recognized at the Fundata FundGrade A+(R) Awards"
date: "2025-02-07 20:00:00"
summary: "24 mutual funds and ETFs managed by TD Asset Management Inc. recognized at the Fundata FundGrade A+(R) AwardsCanada NewsWireTORONTO, Feb. 7, 2025TORONTO, Feb. 7, 2025 /CNW/ - For the thirteenth consecutive year, several mutual funds managed by TD Asset Management Inc. (TDAM) were recognized at the annual Fundata Canada Inc...."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

24 mutual funds and ETFs managed by TD Asset Management Inc. recognized at the Fundata FundGrade A+(R) Awards

Canada NewsWire

TORONTO, Feb. 7, 2025

TORONTO, Feb. 7, 2025 /CNW/ - For the thirteenth consecutive year, several mutual funds managed by TD Asset Management Inc. (TDAM) were recognized at the annual Fundata Canada Inc. (Fundata) FundGrade A+(R) Awards. A combination of 24 TD Mutual Funds, TD Managed Assets Program portfolios and TD Exchange-Traded Funds (TD ETFs) won in their respective categories at the 2024 awards, announced Thursday, February 6, 2025. This represents the most FundGrade A+(R) Awards received by investment funds managed by TDAM in a single period.

"We're honoured to receive recognition again this year from Fundata for multiple TD Mutual Funds, TD Managed Assets Program portfolios and TD ETFs across several categories," said David Sykes, Chief Investment Officer, TDAM. "These awards speak to the relentless pursuit of strong performance, focus on quality, and a commitment to investment excellence from our diverse portfolio managers and investment teams, as well as their dedication in seeking to add value and meet the diverse needs of Canadian investors."

The FundGrade A+(R) Awards recognize Canadian investment fund products that have maintained an exceptional performance rating over the entire previous calendar year, with only around six percent of investment fund products available in Canada receiving the FundGrade A+(R) rating.

The following TD Mutual Funds, TD Managed Assets Program portfolios and TD ETFs were recognized for providing strong risk-adjusted returns relative to industry peers across one or more performance periods:

```
   
Fund Name               CIFSC Category(1)        Fund Count(2)  FundGrade   
                                                                 Start Date(3)   
Funds with 10 years of performance history   
TD Canadian Small-Cap   Canadian Small/Mid Cap   40             2014-12-31   
 Equity Fund (TDB454)    Equity   
TD Global Tactical      Global Neutral Balanced  224            2014-12-31   
Monthly   
Income Fund (TDB2605)   
TD International Index  International Equity     154            2014-12-31   
   
Currency Neutral Fund   
(TDB444)(winner 2(nd)   
consecutive year)   
TD North American       North American Equity    32             2014-12-31   
Dividend   
Fund (TDB688)   
TD U.S. Disciplined     U.S. Equity              237            2014-12-31   
Equity   
Alpha Fund   
(TDB3173)(winner 3(rd)   
consecutive year)   
TD U.S. Monthly Income  Global Neutral Balanced  224            2014-12-31   
Fund (TDB2785)(winner   
6(th) consecutive   
year)   
Funds with 8 years of performance history   
TD Canadian Blue Chip   Canadian Dividend &      83             2016-12-31   
Dividend Fund            Income Equity   
(TDB3105)(winner 3(rd)   
consecutive year)   
TD Canadian             Canadian Neutral         55             2016-12-31   
Diversified              Balanced   
Yield Fund   
(TDB3106)(winner 3(rd)   
consecutive year)   
TD International        International Equity     154            2016-12-31   
Equity CAD   
Hedged Index ETF   
(THE)(winner 3(rd)   
consecutive year)   
TD U.S. Equity Index    U.S. Equity              237            2016-12-31   
ETF   
(TPU)   
Funds with 7 years of performance history   
TD Managed Aggressive   Global Equity Balanced   187            2017-12-31   
Growth ETF Portfolio   
(TDB3560)(winner 3(rd)   
consecutive year)   
TD Managed Balanced     Global Neutral Balanced  224            2017-12-31   
Growth ETF Portfolio   
(TDB3559)(winner 2(nd)   
consecutive year)   
TD Managed Income ETF   Canadian Fixed Income    73             2017-12-31   
 Portfolio (TDB3557)     Balanced   
Funds with 6 years of performance history   
TD Active Preferred     Preferred Share Fixed    28             2018-12-31   
Share                    Income   
ETF (TPRF)(winner   
3(rd) consecutive   
year)   
TD Global Equity        Global Equity            306            2018-12-31   
Focused   
Fund (TDB3455)(winner   
3(rd) consecutive   
year)   
TD Select Short Term    Canadian Short Term      86             2018-12-31   
Corporate Bond Ladder    Fixed Income   
ETF   
(TCSB)(winner 3(rd)   
consecutive year)   
Funds with 5 years of performance history   
TD Active Global        Global Equity            306            2019-12-31   
Enhanced   
Dividend ETF   
(TGED)(winner 2(nd)   
consecutive year)   
TD Q Canadian Dividend  Canadian Dividend &      83             2019-12-31   
 ETF (TQCD)              Income Equity   
TD Q Global Dividend    Global Dividend &        39             2019-12-31   
 ETF (TQGD)              Income Equity   
TD Q U.S.               U.S. Small/Mid Cap       42             2019-12-31   
Small-Mid-Cap Equity     Equity   
ETF (TQSM)(winner   
2(nd) consecutive   
year)   
Funds with 4 years of performance history   
TD Active Global        Global Equity            306            2020-12-31   
Equity   
Growth ETF   
(TGGR)(winner 2(nd)   
consecutive year)   
TD Active Global        Global Infrastructure    27             2020-12-31   
Infrastructure Equity    Equity   
ETF   
(TINF)   
TD Active U.S.          U.S. Equity              237            2020-12-31   
Enhanced   
Dividend ETF (TUED)   
TD Conservative ETF     Global Fixed Income      126            2020-12-31   
Portfolio                Balanced   
(TCON)(winner 2(nd)   
consecutive year)   
 
```

(1) The Canadian Investment Funds Standards Committee (CIFSC) is a Canadian independent organization that defines the categories of funds. (2) Fund Count indicates the number of funds in the category the particular fund is being compared with. (3) The end date for the FundGrade calculation is December 31, 2024.

FundGrade A+(R) is used with permission from Fundata Canada Inc., all rights reserved. The annual FundGrade A+(R) Awards are presented by Fundata Canada Inc. to recognize the "best of the best" among Canadian investment funds. The FundGrade A+(R) calculation is supplemental to the monthly FundGrade ratings and is calculated at the end of each calendar year. The FundGrade rating system evaluates funds based on their risk-adjusted performance, measured by Sharpe Ratio, Sortino Ratio, and Information Ratio. The score for each ratio is calculated individually, covering all time periods from 2 to 10 years. The scores are then weighted equally in calculating a monthly FundGrade. The top 10% of funds earn an A Grade; the next 20% of funds earn a B Grade; the next 40% of funds earn a C Grade; the next 20% of funds receive a D Grade; and the lowest 10% of funds receive an E Grade. To be eligible, a fund must have received a FundGrade rating every month in the previous year. The FundGrade A+(R) uses a GPA-style calculation, where each monthly FundGrade from "A" to "E" receives a score from 4 to 0, respectively. A fund's average score for the year determines its GPA. Any fund with a GPA of 3.5 or greater is awarded a FundGrade A+(R) Award. For more information, see www.FundGradeAwards.com. Although Fundata makes every effort to ensure the accuracy and reliability of the data contained herein, the accuracy is not guaranteed by Fundata.

Performance for TD Canadian Small-Cap Equity Fund for the period that ended December 31, 2024, is as follows: 26.43% (1 year), 10.44% (3 years), 15.21% (5 years), 9.22% (10 years), and 9.74% (since inception on November 1, 2005). Performance for TD Global Tactical Monthly Income Fund for the period that ended December 31, 2024, is as follows: 20.91% (1 year), 6.05% (3 years), 8.82% (5 years), 7.44 (10 years), and 8.00% (since inception on September 12, 2012). Performance for TD International Index Currency Neutral Fund for the period that ended December 31, 2024, is as follows: 13.24% (1 year), 8.01% (3 years), 8.50% (5 years), 7.62% (10 years), and 3.65% (since inception on November 1, 2000). Performance for TD North American Dividend Fund for the period that ended December 31, 2024, is as follows: 38.94% (1 year), 13.35% (3 years), 13.40% (5 years), 11.99% (10 years), and 8.91% (since inception on January 8, 2007). Performance for TD U.S. Disciplined Equity Alpha Fund for the period that ended December 31, 2024, is as follows: 31.10% (1 year), 13.67% (3 years), 16.71% (5 years), N/A (10 years), and 15.51% (since inception on September 13, 2016). Performance for TD U.S. Monthly Income Fund for the period that ended December 31, 2024, is as follows: 27.80% (1 year), 9.26% (3 years), 10.55% (5 years), 9.96% (10 years), and 11.15% (since inception on September 10, 2013). Performance for TD Canadian Blue Chip Dividend Fund for the period that ended December 31, 2024, is as follows: 17.02% (1 year), 8.81% (3 years), 10.23% (5 years), N/A (10 years), and 9.65% (since inception on April 26, 2016). Performance for TD Canadian Diversified Yield Fund for the period that ended December 31, 2024, is as follows: 24.32% (1 year), 7.26% (3 years), 10.23% (5 years), N/A (10 years), and 9.00% (since inception on April 26, 2016). Performance for TD International Equity CAD Hedged Index ETF for the period that ended December 31, 2024, is as follows: 12.76% (1 year), 7.94% (3 years), 8.45% (5 years), N/A (10 years), and 9.15% (since inception on March 22, 2016). Performance for TD U.S. Equity Index ETF for the period that ended December 31, 2024, is as follows: 35.77% (1 year), 13.06% (3 years), 16.63% (5 years), N/A (10 years), and 15.71% (since inception on March 22, 2016). Performance for TD Managed Aggressive Growth ETF Portfolio for the period that ended December 31, 2024, is as follows: 21.69% (1 year), 8.23% (3 years), N/A (5 years), N/A (10 years), and 9.32% (since inception on January 30, 2020). Performance for TD Managed Balanced Growth ETF Portfolio for the period that ended December 31, 2024, is as follows: 17.14% (1 year), 6.14% (3 years), N/A (5 years), N/A (10 years), and 7.04% (since inception on January 30, 2020). Performance for TD Managed Income ETF Portfolio for the period that ended December 31, 2024, is as follows: 10.74% (1 year), 3.14% (3 years), N/A (5 years), N/A (10 years), and 3.96% (since inception on January 30, 2020). Performance for TD Active Preferred Share ETF for the period that ended December 31, 2024, is as follows: 28.41% (1 year), 4.72% (3 years), 9.66% (5 years), N/A (10 years), and 6.94% (since inception on November 8, 2018). Performance for TD Global Equity Focused Fund for the period that ended December 31, 2024, is as follows: 32.39% (1 year), 10.98% (3 years), 15.82% (5 years), N/A (10 years), and 14.55% (since inception on September 13, 2018). Performance for TD Select Short Term Corporate Bond Ladder ETF for the period that ended December 31, 2024, is as follows: 6.72% (1 year), 2.97% (3 years), 2.84% (5 years), N/A (10 years), and 3.30% (since inception on November 8, 2018). Performance for TD Active Global Enhanced Dividend ETF for the period that ended December 31, 2024, is as follows: 39.26% (1 year), 13.72% (3 years), 16.06% (5 years), N/A (10 years), and 15.55% (since inception on May 3, 2019). Performance for TD Q Canadian Dividend ETF for the period that ended December 31, 2024, is as follows: 25.64% (1 year), 12.77% (3 years), 9.52% (5 years), N/A (10 years), and 10.00% (since inception on November 20, 2019). Performance for TD Q Global Dividend ETF for the period that ended December 31, 2024, is as follows: 23.09% (1 year), 13.20% (3 years), 10.29% (5 years), N/A (10 years), and 10.28% (since inception on November 20, 2019). Performance for TD Q U.S. Small-Mid-Cap Equity ETF for the period that ended December 31, 2024, is as follows: 20.65% (1 year), 12.93% (3 years), 12.17% (5 years), N/A (10 years), and 11.69% (since inception on November 20, 2019). Performance for TD Active Global Equity Growth ETF for the period that ended December 31, 2024, is as follows: 23.87% (1 year), 9.11% (3 years), N/A (5 years), N/A (10 years), and 15.26% (since inception on May 26, 2020). Performance for TD Active Global Infrastructure Equity ETF for the period that ended December 31, 2024, is as follows: 22.79% (1 year), 10.09% (3 years), N/A (5 years), N/A (10 years), and 10.66% (since inception on May 26, 2020). Performance for TD Active U.S. Enhanced Dividend ETF for the period that ended December 31, 2024, is as follows: 46.86% (1 year), 16.36% (3 years), N/A (5 years), N/A (10 years), and 20.42% (since inception on May 26, 2020). Performance for TD Conservative ETF Portfolio for the period that ended December 31, 2024, is as follows: 9.67% (1 year), 2.48% (3 years), N/A (5 years), N/A (10 years), and 3.65% (since inception on August 11, 2020).

Commissions, management fees and expenses all may be associated with mutual fund and/or exchange- traded fund ("ETF") investments (collectively, "the Funds"). Trailing commissions may be associated with mutual fund investments. ETF units are bought and sold at market price on a stock exchange and brokerage commissions will reduce returns. Please read the fund facts or ETF facts and the prospectus, which contain detailed investment information, before investing in the Funds. The Funds are not covered by the Canada Deposit Insurance Corporation or by any other government deposit insurer and are not guaranteed or insured. Their values change frequently. There can be no assurances that a money market fund will be able to maintain its net asset value per unit at a constant amount or that the full amount of your investment will be returned to you. Past performance may not be repeated.

The TD International Index Currency Neutral Fund (the "Fund") is not sponsored, promoted, sold or supported in any other manner by Solactive AG nor does Solactive AG offer any express or implicit guarantee or assurance either with regard to the results of using the Solactive GBS Developed Markets ex North America Large & Mid Cap Hedged to CAD Index (CA NTR) and/or any trade mark(s) associated with the Solactive GBS Developed Markets ex North America Large & Mid Cap Hedged to CAD Index (CA NTR) or the prices of the Solactive GBS Developed Markets ex North America Large & Mid Cap Hedged to CAD Index (CA NTR) at any time or in any other respect. The Solactive GBS Developed Markets ex North America Large & Mid Cap Hedged to CAD Index (CA NTR) is calculated and published by Solactive AG. Solactive AG uses its best efforts to ensure that the Solactive GBS Developed Markets ex North America Large & Mid Cap Hedged to CAD Index (CA NTR) is calculated correctly. TD U.S. Equity Index ETF is not sponsored, promoted, sold or supported in any other manner by Solactive AG nor does Solactive AG offer any express or implicit guarantee or assurance either with regard to the results of using the Solactive AG Indices and/or any trade mark(s) associated with the Solactive AG Indices or the prices of the Solactive AG Indices at any time or in any other respect. The Solactive AG Indices are calculated and published by Solactive AG. Solactive AG uses its best efforts to ensure that the Solactive AG Indices are calculated correctly.

TD Mutual Funds, TD ETFs and the TD Managed Assets Program portfolios are managed by TD Asset Management Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of The Toronto-Dominion Bank, and are available through authorized dealers.

(R) The TD logo and other TD trademarks are the property of The Toronto-Dominion Bank or its subsidiaries.

About TD Asset Management Inc.

TD Asset Management Inc. ("TDAM"), a member of TD Bank Group, is a North American investment management firm. TDAM offers investment solutions to corporations, pension funds, endowments, foundations and individual investors. Additionally, TDAM manages assets on behalf of almost 2 million retail investors and offers a broadly diversified suite of investment solutions including mutual funds, professionally managed portfolios and corporate class funds. Asset management businesses at TD manage $487 billion in assets. Aggregate statistics under management as of December 31, 2024 for TDAM and Epoch Investment Partners, Inc. TDAM operates in Canada and Epoch Investment Partners, Inc. operates in the United States. Both entities are affiliates and are wholly-owned subsidiaries of The Toronto-Dominion Bank.

SOURCE TD Asset Management Inc.

View original content: http://www.newswire.ca/en/releases/archive/February2025/07/c9493.html

/CONTACT:

For further information: Alicia Skrinjar, TD Bank Group, alicia.skrinjar@td.com

Copyright CNW Group 2025

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250207004967:0/)
