---
title: "North American Morning Briefing: Futures Pause Ahead of Payrolls; Amazon Falls"
date: "2025-02-07 19:22:00"
summary: "OPENING CALLStock futures were little changed ahead of Friday's keenly eyed data.JPMorgan's trading desk said the best scenario for stocks would be gains of between 190,000 and 230,000 jobs. That would ease growth fears, and possibly, make it less likely for President Trump to take punitive trade measures, while the..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

OPENING CALL

Stock futures were little changed ahead of Friday's keenly eyed data.

JPMorgan's trading desk said the best scenario for stocks would be gains of between 190,000 and 230,000 jobs. That would ease growth fears, and possibly, make it less likely for President Trump to take punitive trade measures, while the worst would be growth below 110,000, which could suggest trade uncertainty is already filtering into the economy.

It noted that the market is pricing in a 1 percentage point move on the day.

Stocks to Watch

Affirm's revenue easily beat expectations, while gross merchandise volume topped $10 billion for the first time. Shares rose more than 16% offhours.

Amazon.com forecast weaker-than-expected sales as it spent a record in capital expenditure to build infrastructure for AI services. Shares fell 3%.

E.l.f. Beauty cut its full-year outlook for the first time in about six years, missing Wall Street expectations. Shares fell 25%.

Pinterest's revenue rose as monthly active users reached a record high. Shares rose 20%.

Take-Two Interactive Software reported a narrower loss than expected and said this calendar year is shaping up to be one of the company's strongest, citing its pipeline of upcoming games including "Grand Theft Auto VI." Shares climbed 6.5%.

Watch For:

Employment Report for January; University of Michigan Preliminary Consumer Survey for February; Wholesale Inventories for December; Canada Labour Force Survey for January, earnings from Avantor, Kimco Realty, Newell Brands and Frontier Group Holdings

Today's Headlines/Must Reads:

- AI-Native Companies Are Growing Fast and Doing Things Differently

- Tech Giants Double Down on Their Massive AI Spending

- Trump's Use of Guantanamo Bay Signals Hard Line Against Migrants

MARKET WRAPS

Forex:

The dollar was steady, but could fall slightly if payrolls data are weaker, Swissquote Bank said.

The data could show growth in jobs and wages slowed while the unemployment rate held steady, and annual revisions could also be adjusted down.

In that case, "the week will end with the narrative that the U.S. jobs market is healthily slowing," allowing the Fed to continue cutting interest rates slowly.

Any dollar depreciation will remain limited against European currencies due to expectations for more rate cuts compared with the U.S. and safe-haven demand.

The euro could rise if the ECB revises its estimate of the neutral rate higher at 07:00 Eastern, ING said.

ECB member Olli Rehn said Thursday that "we should not constrain our freedom of action because of a theoretical concept."

Based on these comments, and the fact that neutral rate projections embed much higher inflation than previously, the rate should be revised higher, and if jobs data could be weaker than expected, the euro could rise back to Wednesday's $1.0443 high, it said.

Bonds:

Ten-year Treasury yields were steady on caution ahead of the jobs data.

The Fed recently confirmed it was in no hurry to cut interest rates further, even as it left the door open to further reductions and robust jobs figures would encourage the idea that there is little or possibly no scope for further rate cuts.

Conversely, weak data could increase prospects of rate cuts, potentially weighing down on Treasury yields and the dollar, DHF Capital S.A. said.

SocGen said that if payrolls data prompts a selloff in Treasurys, it could be a buying opportunity.

"We are neutral on duration, but view a selloff post NFP as a buying opportunity."

The 10-year U.S. Treasury yield broke below the tight 4.50%-4.65% range in response to weaker data and unchanged forward guidance in the Treasury's refunding announcement, nevertheless, the risks to yields are skewed to the downside in case of a below-consensus print, it added.

Energy:

Oil prices rose after the U.S. imposed sanctions on an international network facilitating the shipment of Iranian crude to China to ramp up pressure on the Middle Eastern country.

The sanctions target entities and individuals in China, India and the UAE, as well as several vessels, according to the Treasury Department.

Still, crude prices are headed for weekly losses after days of volatile trade, with demand concerns in focus amid a bigger-than-expected rise in U.S. crude stockpiles, Trump's tariffs on China and push for increased domestic production.

Metals:

Gold futures rose, hovering just below record highs.

BMI said it should remain elevated in the near term as tariff policies reignite trade war fears.

Gold Chart

Comex gold futures' upward movement is taking a minor pause, based on the daily chart, RHB Retail Research said.

During this consolidation phase, the commodity could pull back to test the $2,800 support level, it added.

Copper

Copper was higher after the world's largest copper producer, Chile, warned of tighter supply, according to ANZ.

TODAY'S TOP HEADLINES

Musk's Politics Could Hurt Tesla's EV Sales. That Probably Won't Hurt the Stock.

Elon Musk's foray into the D.C. swamp could hurt Tesla's EV business, but it probably won't hurt the stock-for now.

Shares of Tesla have had a tough run since President Donald Trump's inauguration, with the stock falling 13% since Jan. 20. The drop coincides with Musk efforts with the so-called Department of Government Efficiency, including the freezing of the U.S. Agency for International Development, canceling contracts at the General Services Administration, and threatening to shutter the Education Department. Sales of Tesla electric vehicles have also slipped in recent months, raising questions about just how much of a risk Musk's politics pose for Tesla shareholders.

State Farm Was All In on California-Until It Pulled the Plug Before the Fires

After the pandemic, most home insurers were fleeing wildfire-prone areas of California. But State Farm was there-and making a huge bet.

It gobbled up market share-and generated substantial commissions for its agents-by insuring high-value homes in the Pacific Palisades and other Los Angeles neighborhoods that many of its competitors rejected as too vulnerable to wildfires. By 2022, State Farm had more than 20% of the California market, dwarfing its competitors.

Xiaomi Shares Hit All-Time High Amid Glowy Outlook

Xiaomi's shares hit a new intraday high in Hong Kong as optimism grew over the earnings outlook for the Chinese consumer-electronics specialist this year.

The stock rose as much as 6.2% to 43.05 Hong Kong dollars, equivalent to US$5.53, early Friday before paring the gains to about 4.5% in afternoon trading.

Is the U.S. jobs market much weaker than it looks? We're about to find out.

Was the U.S. jobs market much weaker than it appeared toward the end of 2024? Probably not, but Wall Street is anxious to find out.

The answer will come Friday when the government unveils the January employment report.

Fed might need to hold rates steady 'for quite some time,' Logan says

The Federal Reserve may need to hold rates at least at the current level "for quite some time," and even slower inflation might not be a reason for easing, Dallas Fed President Lorie Logan said Thursday.

In a speech in Mexico City, Logan said she saw two key possibilities for interest-rate strategies this year.

Hong Kong to Challenge U.S. Tariffs on Imports in WTO Complaint

Hong Kong will file a complaint against the U.S.'s additional 10% tariff with the World Trade Organization, claiming the levies violate WTO rules.

In a statement released Friday, a spokesman for the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region (HKSAR) Government described the tariffs as "unreasonable measures" and "grossly inconsistent with the relevant WTO rules."

U.S. to Dial Back Crackdown on Foreign Corruption, Russian Oligarchs to Fight Cartels

The U.S. Justice Department will shift its resources away from fighting traditional corporate corruption and Russian oligarchs toward the battle against drug cartels, new Attorney General Pam Bondi said.

Bondi, who was sworn in Wednesday, announced changes to the approach to foreign corruption prosecutions in one of a series of memos that outlined sweeping overhauls to the Justice Department's strategy.

House Republicans Close In on Budget Deal After Trump Meeting

WASHINGTON-House Republicans wrapped up a more than four-hour meeting at the White House on Thursday saying that they had closed gaps in their own internal disagreements over extending expiring tax cuts and cutting spending, and indicated details of a deal could be announced as soon as Friday.

"We had a very productive meeting," House Majority Leader Steve Scalise (R., La.) said after lawmakers streamed back into the Capitol. "We are narrowing down the areas of differences."

Politico Draws DOGE's Ire, Signaling a Shakeout for Media with Major Government Customers

An inside-the-Beltway must-read media outlet has quickly become a flashpoint in President Trump's pursuit of federal government-spending cuts.

Politico, launched nearly 20 years ago to provide insight into government goings-on and Capitol Hill haggling, built a lucrative business selling news and, increasingly, targeted products to federal agencies and the lobbyists and consultants who serve them. It developed sophisticated policy-analysis and tracking tools, in addition to exclusive news and newsletters.

Write to clare.kinloch@wsj.com

TODAY IN CANADA

Earnings:

Canopy Growth 3Q

Economic Indicators (ET):

0830 Stocks of Canadian grain at Dec 31

0830 Jan Labour Force Survey

Stocks to Watch:

Aurora Cannabis Announces Strategic Supply Agreement With SNDL Saputo 3Q Rev C$4.99B; Loss/Shr C$1.22; Adj EPS C$0.39; Loss C$518M; FY25 Inflationary Pressures Are Anticipated to Moderate Versus the Prior Fiscal Yr; Expect USA Dairy Markets to Progressively Improve Throughout the Yr; Global Demand for Dairy Products Is Expected to Remain Moderate; Decided to Withdraw Previously Disclosed Long-Term Adjusted EBITDA Aspirations

Other News:

Prolonged Trade Uncertainty to Weigh on Economic Growth, Bank of Canada's Macklem Says

Expected Major Events for Friday

00:01/UK: Jan BRC-Sensormatic IQ Footfall Monitor

05:00/JPN: Dec Indexes of Business Conditions - Preliminary Release

07:00/GER: Dec Foreign Trade

07:00/UK: Jan Halifax House Price Index

07:00/GER: Dec Industrial Production Index

07:45/FRA: Dec Foreign trade

07:45/FRA: Dec Balance of payments

07:45/FRA: 4Q Flash estimate of job creation

13:30/US: Jan U.S. Employment Report

13:30/CAN: Dec Stocks of Canadian grain at Dec 31

13:30/CAN: Jan Labour Force Survey

15:00/US: Dec Monthly Wholesale Trade

15:00/US: Feb University of Michigan Survey of Consumers - preliminary

20:00/US: Dec Consumer Credit

All times in GMT. Powered by Kantar Media and Dow Jones.

Expected Earnings for Friday

Air T Inc (AIRT) is expected to report for 3Q.

Astrotech Corp (ASTC) is expected to report for 2Q.

Avantor Inc (AVTR) is expected to report $0.15 for 4Q.

Byrna Technologies Inc (BYRN,BYRN-L) is expected to report $0.11 for 4Q.

Canopy Growth Corp (CGC,WEED.T) is expected to report for 3Q.

Catalent Inc (CTLT) is expected to report $-0.12 for 2Q.

Cboe Global Markets Inc (CBOE) is expected to report $1.96 for 4Q.

Construction Partners Inc (ROAD) is expected to report $0.15 for 1Q.

Contineum Therapeutics Inc (CTNM) is expected to report for 4Q.

DiDi Global Inc - ADR (DIDIY) is expected to report for Interim.

EVI Industries Inc (EVI) is expected to report for 2Q.

Espey Manufacturing & Electronics Corp (ESP) is expected to report for 2Q.

First Guaranty Bancshares (FGBI) is expected to report $0.03 for 4Q.

First United Corp (FUNC) is expected to report $0.86 for 4Q.

Fortive Corp (FTV) is expected to report $0.79 for 4Q.

Frontier Group Holdings Inc (ULCC) is expected to report $0.13 for 4Q.

Gorman-Rupp Co (GRC) is expected to report $0.45 for 4Q.

GrafTech International Ltd (EAF) is expected to report $-0.14 for 4Q.

Graham Corp (GHM) is expected to report $0.10 for 3Q.

Green Plains Inc (GPRE) is expected to report $-0.36 for 4Q.

Kentucky First Federal Bancorp (KFFB) is expected to report for 2Q.

Kimco Realty Corp (KIM) is expected to report $0.18 for 4Q.

Nemaura Medical Inc (NMRD) is expected to report for 4Q.

Newell Brands Inc (NWL) is expected to report $0.14 for 4Q.

NioCorp Developments Ltd (NB,NBD-T) is expected to report for 2Q.

OptimumBank Holdings Inc (OPHC) is expected to report for 4Q.

Perella Weinberg Partners (PWP) is expected to report for 4Q.

Plains All American Pipeline LP (PAA) is expected to report $0.45 for 4Q.

Plains GP Holdings LP (PAGP) is expected to report $0.50 for 4Q.

Proto Labs (PRLB) is expected to report $0.09 for 4Q.

SIFCO Industries (SIF) is expected to report for 1Q.

Skye Bioscience Inc (SKYE) is expected to report for 4Q.

StandardAero Inc (SARO) is expected to report for 4Q.

Trilogy Metals Inc (TMQ,TMQ.T) is expected to report for 4Q.

Trump Media & Technology Group Corp (DJT) is expected to report for 4Q.

Ubiquiti Inc (UI) is expected to report $2.00 for 2Q.

VOXX International Corp - Class A (VOXX) is expected to report for 3Q.

Video Display Corp (VIDE) is expected to report for 3Q.

WEBTOON Entertainment Inc (WBTN) is expected to report for 4Q.

Zenas BioPharma Inc (ZBIO) is expected to report for 4Q.

Powered by Kantar Media and Dow Jones.

ANALYST RATINGS ACTIONS

Altus Power Cut to Neutral From Buy by Seaport Global

Altus Power Raised to Neutral From Underweight by JP Morgan

Ares Capital Cut to Market Perform From Outperform by Raymond James

Array Technologies Raised to Neutral From Underperform by Exane BNP Paribas

Bombardier Likely to Avoid Brunt of Tariffs, but Guidance Scrapped Due to Uncertainty, CEO Says

Conmed Cut to Neutral From Overweight by JP Morgan

FormFactor Cut to Neutral From Buy by B. Riley Securities

Frontier Comms Parent Cut to Underperform From Market Perform by Raymond James

Hologic Cut to Market Perform From Outperform by Leerink Partners

News Corp Upgraded to Overweight from Neutral by Barrenjoey

Match Group Cut to In-Line From Outperform by Evercore ISI Group

Skyworks Cut to Hold From Buy by Stifel

Skyworks Cut to Neutral From Buy by B. Riley Securities

Skyworks Cut to Neutral From Buy by Rosenblatt

Skyworks Cut to Neutral From Outperform by Mizuho

Symbotic Cut to Market Perform From Outperform by Raymond James

Tetra Tech Cut to Hold From Buy by Maxim Group

Triumph Group Cut to Equal-Weight From Overweight by Barclays

Voya Financial Cut to Equal-Weight From Overweight by Barclays

WaFd Cut to Neutral From Buy by DA Davidson

This article is a text version of a Wall Street Journal newsletter published earlier today.

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250207004519:0/)
