---
title: "News Highlights: Top Company News of the Day - Friday at 7 AM ET"
date: "2025-02-07 20:15:00"
summary: "Amazon Pours Fuel on Big Tech Spending After DeepSeek PanicThe e-commerce giant is pulling ahead of rivals in the AI investment race with plans for more than $100 billion in capital expenditures this year.Tech Giants Double Down on Their Massive AI SpendingAmazon, Google, Microsoft and Meta are pouring billions into..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

**Amazon Pours Fuel on Big Tech Spending After DeepSeek Panic**

The e-commerce giant is pulling ahead of rivals in the AI investment race with plans for more than $100 billion in capital expenditures this year.

**Tech Giants Double Down on Their Massive AI Spending**

Amazon, Google, Microsoft and Meta are pouring billions into artificial intelligence, undeterred by DeepSeek's rise.

**State Farm Was All In on California-Until It Pulled the Plug Before the Fires**

The insurer aggressively grew in Los Angeles, despite getting overweight on fire risk, but decided to cut thousands of policies last year, adding to the state's home-insurance crisis.

**Xiaomi Shares Hit All-Time High Amid Glowy Outlook**

Xiaomi's shares hit a new intraday high in Hong Kong as optimism grew over the earnings outlook for the Chinese consumer-electronics specialist this year.

**Naver Posts Strong Quarterly Earnings, Record Annual Revenue**

The South Korean internet giant posted stronger-than-expected fourth-quarter earnings and record annual revenue, driven by its core search platform and e-commerce businesses.

**Bain Capital to Buy Mitsubishi Chemical's Pharma Business for More Than $3 Billion**

The Japanese chemical company has agreed to sell its pharmaceutical business to Bain Capital for more than $3 billion, in a bid to focus on its key businesses.

**Danske Bank Launches $696 Million Buyback as Earnings Top Its Forecast**

The Copenhagen-based bank reported a rise in net profit that beat its expectation, said it is well-positioned for future growth.

**Pinterest's stock is soaring, as platform gets more users and hits its first $1 billion sales quarter**

Pinterest grows its monthly user base by 11% and quarterly sales top $1 billon for the first time.

**E.l.f. Beauty stock sinks after cosmetics maker trims outlook. Its CEO says shoppers are focused on bigger matters.**

Shares of E.l.f. Beauty Inc. tumbled after hours on Thursday after the cosmetics maker trimmed its full-year outlook, citing "softer-than-expected trends in January."

**Hydrogen-Truck Maker Nikola Nears Bankruptcy Filing**

The much-hyped hydrogen-truck maker was briefly valued more than Ford Motor.

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250207005286:0-news-highlights-top-company-news-of-the-day-friday-at-7-am-et/)
