---
title: "Global Equities Roundup: Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-07 15:44:00"
summary: "The latest Market Talks covering Equities. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.0744 GMT - Nordic markets are seen opening slightly lower, with IG calling the OMXS30 down 0.1% at around 2663. The S&amp;P500 and Nasdaq ended higher yesterday after mixed earnings reports that also saw Amazon shares..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The latest Market Talks covering Equities. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.

0744 GMT - Nordic markets are seen opening slightly lower, with IG calling the OMXS30 down 0.1% at around 2663. The S&P500 and Nasdaq ended higher yesterday after mixed earnings reports that also saw Amazon shares drop after lower-than-expected results, SEB analysts say in a note. January's U.S. jobs data are in focus Friday. SEB expects employment growth to stabilize somewhat below pre-pandemic rates with the unemployment rate remaining low. Also due are the U.S. confidence indicator from the University of Michigan while the European Central Bank will announce new estimates for the neutral interest rate. OMXS30 closed at 2665.74, OMXN40 at 2626.04 and OBX at 1413.97. (dominic.chopping@wsj.com)

0732 GMT - Mega Lifesciences' 2025 business outlook appears mixed, CGS International's Thanapol Jiratanakij says in a research report as the brokerage maintains the stock's hold rating. Its branded revenue is projected to grow 6.6% this year thanks to robust demand for its nutraceutical products and increased contribution from its newly launched pharmaceutical formulations, the analyst says. However, the brokerage foresees ongoing challenges for the Thai pharmaceutical company in Myanmar, where the government continues to impose import curbs on various goods including pharmaceutical products. The brokerage cuts the stock's target price to THB34.00 from THB40.50 to partly reflect ongoing risks in Myanmar owing to political uncertainty. Shares are 4.2% higher at THB31.25. (ronnie.harui@wsj.com)

0720 GMT - The FTSE 100 is expected to open 22 points, or 0.3%, lower according to IG. The index closed 103 points, or 1.2%, higher to 8727 points Thursday. The Bank of England cut interest rates by 25 basis points to 4.5% Thursday, as expected. However, two members surprised the market by voting for a 50bp cut, weakening sterling and boosting the FTSE 100. Turning to Friday's agenda, the focus is on the U.S. nonfarm payrolls report at 1330 GMT as it could provide clues about the Federal Reserve's rate path. "We think that the employment picture will start to weaken from the second quarter, but for now will remain strong," Jefferies economist Mohit Kumar says in a note. (renae.dyer@wsj.com)

0720 GMT - Chinese shares ended higher, with the Shanghai Composite Index adding 1.0% to 3303.67. The Shenzhen Composite Index rose 1.6% to 1996.24 and the ChiNext Price Index gained 2.5%. Investors focused on tariff developments between the U.S. and China, while sentiment in mainland China and Hong Kong markets were broadly improved by China's DeepSeek's AI breakthrough. Among major stocks, auto-related companies led the gains. BYD added 5.1% as investors held high expectations for its upcoming smart car press conference. Great Wall Motor was 3.1% higher and CATL gained 3.2%. Decliners included SMIC, which dropped 1.8%, and Hygon Information Technology, which was 0.8% lower. (tracy.qu@wsj.com)

0716 GMT - Cognizant Technology Solutions remains one of Nomura's top picks in India's IT services sector, Abhishek Bhandari says in a research report. The U.S.-listed Indian company says it's experiencing all-round sustained momentum in large deals across industries and service lines, and seeing improvement in contract values, the analysts says. Cognizant also says it's winning market share in financial services. However, Nomura lowers its 2025-2026 EPS estimates for the company by 3%-5% to partly reflect slightly higher tax rates. It lowers the stock's target price to US$97.00 from US$100.00, and maintains a buy rating. Shares closed at US$87.09. (ronnie.harui@wsj.com)Amorepacific Group fell 6.0%, HD Hyundai Mipo slid 3.8%. "South Korea's Kospi Falls 0.6%, Snapping Three-Session Winning Streak — Market Talk," at 0700 GMT, incorrectly said Amorepacific Group fell 3.2% and HD Hyundai Mipo slid 4.9%.

0700 GMT - South Korea's Kospi fell 0.6% to close at 2521.92, snapping a three-session winning streak. The benchmark index gained 0.2% for the week. Foreign and institutional investors remained net sellers in Friday's session. Some traders booked profit after recent gains, amid cautious sentiment ahead of the U.S. nonfarm payrolls report. Cosmetics, shipbuilding and internet stocks were among the top decliners. Beauty-product conglomerate Amorepacific Group fell 6.0%. Shipbuilder HD Hyundai Mipo slid 3.8%. Internet-platform giant Naver lost 2.8%, reversing earlier gains after it delivered above-consensus 4Q earnings. USD/KRW settled flat at 1,447.80 in Seoul onshore trading. South Korea's 10-year government bond yield was up 2.7 bps at 2.823%.(kwanwoo.jun@wsj.com) Corrections & Amplifications

This market talk item was corrected at 0716 GMT to reflect Amorepacific Group fell 6.0%, HD Hyundai Mipo slid 3.8%. The original version incorrectly said Amorepacific Group fell 3.2% and HD Hyundai Mipo slid 4.9%.

0648 GMT - Japanese stocks ended lower as concerns about higher borrowing costs persisted. Auto and real-estate stocks led the declines. Toyota Motor dropped 2.7% and Sumitomo Realty & Development shed 2.8%. The Nikkei Stock Average fell 0.7% to 38787.02. The 10-year Japanese government bond yield rose 4 basis points to 1.300%, the highest level since April 2011. Investors are paying attention to Prime Minister Shigeru Ishiba's U.S. visit. USD/JPY is at 151.71, compared with 151.45 as of Thursday 5 p.m. Eastern time. (kosaku.narioka@wsj.com; @kosakunarioka)

0629 GMT - HD Hyundai Mipo, a South Korean medium-range oil tanker maker, may not benefit from U.S. crude output increases, Nomura analyst Eon Hwang writes in a note. The increases won't likely lead to a rise in shipping trade for U.S. refineries, which are already on full utilization, Hwang says. He also says the U.S.-proposed large oceangoing merchant fleet may not need new vessels but can be enrolled with existing ones until 2029. He cuts his 2025 operating-profit forecast for the company by 17%. Nomura downgrades its rating on the stock to neutral from buy and cuts its target price by 14% to KRW120,000. Shares are 4.7% lower at KRW110,200. (kwanwoo.jun@wsj.com)

0527 GMT - After the double-digit returns of 2023 and 2024, Australian shares are expected to return a far more constrained 7% in the year ahead, says Diana Mousina, an economist at AMP. Stretched valuations, the ongoing risk of recession, the risk of a global trade war and ongoing geopolitical issues will likely make for a volatile ride with a 15% plus correction somewhere along the way highly likely, she adds. But with the Reserve Bank of Australia expected to cut rates, the prospects for stronger growth later in the year supporting profits, and U.S. policies ultimately supporting U.S. shares, should still mean okay investment returns, she adds. (james.glynn@wsj.com; @JamesGlynnWSJ)

0521 GMT - Filinvest REIT Corp. stands to benefit from the addition of a flagship mall from sponsor Filinvest Land, Maybank Securities' Raffy Mendoza says in a research report. Based on the REIT's disclosure, the addition of 121,862 square meters of gross leasable area improves its operational metrics, the analyst notes. These metrics are an increase in the REIT's overall occupancy, an extension of its weighted average lease expiry and a diversification of its portfolio away from offices into retail assets, the analyst says. The brokerage raises its 2025 and 2026 EPS forecasts for the REIT by 1% each. It lifts the target price to PHP3.50 from PHP3.30 with an unchanged buy rating. Units are 0.3% lower at PHP3.18. (ronnie.harui@wsj.com)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250207003018:0/)
