---
title: "Victrex Backs Targets Despite Weak Medical Performance"
date: "2025-02-07 15:32:00"
summary: "By Michael SusinVictrex reiterated its targets for fiscal 2025 after reporting revenue growth in the first quarter, but warned that the current backdrop remains mixed.The London-listed polymers manufacturer on Friday said revenue for the first quarter ended Dec. 31 rose 9% at 66.6 million pounds ($82.8 million), supported by a..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Michael Susin

Victrex reiterated its targets for fiscal 2025 after reporting revenue growth in the first quarter, but warned that the current backdrop remains mixed.

The London-listed polymers manufacturer on Friday said revenue for the first quarter ended Dec. 31 rose 9% at 66.6 million pounds ($82.8 million), supported by a 20% increase in sales volume at 898 metric tons.

Despite the positive delivery against a weak quarter in the prior year, Victrex said the current backdrop in the second quarter remains mixed, with subdued medical revenues due to continuing industry destocking.

The company added that profit growth will be weighted toward the second half of the year.

For fiscal 2025 ending September, the company continues to expect volume to grow by at least a mid-single-digit percentage and adjusted pretax profit--which strips out exceptional and other one-off items--to grow more than volume.

"Cost control, self-help measures, higher asset utilization and lower raw material costs will help to underpin profit improvement in fiscal 2025. However, we are mindful that current trading conditions remain mixed, with continuing softness in Medical," Chief Executive Jakob Sigurdsson said.

Write to Michael Susin at michael.susin@wsj.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250207002952:0/)
