---
title: "Legal & General to Sell U.S. Insurance Businesses in $2.3 Billion Deal — Update"
date: "2025-02-07 16:23:00"
summary: "By Ian WalkerLegal &amp; General Group is selling its U.S. protection and pension risk transfer businesses to long-term partner Meiji Yasuda Life Insurance in a deal that values them at $2.3 billion.The FTSE 100-listed insurance company said Friday that it expects to return 1.0 billion pounds ($1.24 billion) of the..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Ian Walker

Legal & General Group is selling its U.S. protection and pension risk transfer businesses to long-term partner Meiji Yasuda Life Insurance in a deal that values them at $2.3 billion.

The FTSE 100-listed insurance company said Friday that it expects to return 1.0 billion pounds ($1.24 billion) of the funds to shareholders via buybacks upon completion of the deal. It added that the board expects to return 40% of its market capitalization to shareholders through 2027 via a combination of dividends and buybacks.

L&G said the rest of the money received from the deal will be used toward its growth strategy.

The company had a market capitalization of 14.08 billion pounds based on its closing share price of 238.90 pence on Thursday.

As part of the deal, Meiji Yasuda will buy a 5% shareholding in the company and build on its existing partnership with L&G in asset management, the company said.

Upon completion Meiji Yasuda will own L&G's U.S. protection business and have a 20% interest in its U.S. PRT business, with L&G owning the rest through reinsurance arrangements between the two companies.

Meiji Yasuda will also outsource the investment management of U.S. PRT and protection assets to L&G, while the two companies will form a long-term partnership in global private assets.

"This is a transformative transaction that brings significant strategic and financial benefits to the group and demonstrates our commitment to deliver on our strategy--sharpening our focus on core businesses, leveraging the synergies between them, and driving sustainable growth to enhance shareholder returns," L&G Chief Executive Antonio Simoes said.

The stake reflects Meiji Yasuda's confidence in L&G's leadership, strategy and long-term prospects, Meiji Yasuda Chief Executive Hideki Nagashima said.

The deal is expected to close toward the end of this year, subject to regulatory and other approvals. It is expected to increase the group's solvency II ratio--a key measure of balance-sheet strength--by 22 percentage points at completion, and around 7 percentage points after the proposed buyback.

The company had a solvency II coverage ratio of 223% at June 30, 2024.

L&G reiterated its guidance of mid-single digit growth in core operating profit for 2024 and backed its longer term guidance as set out in its capital markets day last June.

As part of that event the company set out a target for core operating earnings per share to grow 6% to 9% at CAGR through to 2027 with above 20% operating return on equity.

Shares are up 17.90 pence, or 7.5%, at 256.80 pence, leading the FTSE 100-index gainers. They are up 12% over the year to date.

Write to Ian Walker at ian.walker@wsj.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250207003274:0/)
