---
title: "News Highlights: Top Global Markets News of the Day - Friday at 3 AM ET"
date: "2025-02-07 16:15:00"
summary: "Dow Slips; Investors Dig Into Results DelugeAnother batch of strong corporate earnings reports pushed the S&amp;P 500 and Nasdaq stock indexes toward record highs while plans to break up one of America's last big industrial conglomerates pulled down the Dow.DeepSeek Breakthrough Fuels Rally in Chinese Tech StocksThe Hang Seng Tech..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

**Dow Slips; Investors Dig Into Results Deluge**

Another batch of strong corporate earnings reports pushed the S&P 500 and Nasdaq stock indexes toward record highs while plans to break up one of America's last big industrial conglomerates pulled down the Dow.

**DeepSeek Breakthrough Fuels Rally in Chinese Tech Stocks**

The Hang Seng Tech Index, which tracks the 30 largest technology companies listed in the city, rose as much as 2.9% on Friday, reflecting a rise of more than 20% from its January low.

**India Central Bank Kicks Off Easing Cycle to Boost Economy**

The Reserve Bank of India cut its policy rate for the first time in nearly five years as economic growth slows and inflation cools.

**German Industrial Production Ends 2024 on Weak Note**

Output declined 2.4% on month in December, driven by a fall in auto production, as the industrial sector faces the threat of a further slowdown from U.S. tariffs.

**U.K. Shopper Traffic Rises on January's Bargain Hunt, BRC Says**

Retail footfall jumped 6.6% despite inclement weather, stimulated by promotional activity after a disappointing Christmas period.

**The Early Verdict on Tariffs: Bad Economics, Better Politics**

Markets concluded tariffs on Mexico and Canada would hurt the economy and raise prices. But they got both countries to act.

**Fed might need to hold rates steady 'for quite some time,' Logan says**

Even inflation falling close to 2% in the coming months might not necessarily allow the Fed to cut rates soon, Logan said.

**Fed Chair Powell to testify to Congress next week, his first appearance since July**

Powell is set to testify before the Senate Banking Committee on Tuesday at 10 a.m. Eastern and to the House Financial Services panel on the following day.

**Trump's focus on 10-year Treasury yield to cut borrowing costs raises curiosity - and problems**

Federal Reserve Chair Jerome Powell may be breathing easier now that the Trump administration intends to focus on the 10-year Treasury yield, instead of rate cuts, to lower borrowing costs. But for some market participants, the news was raising problematic questions.

**Silver Is Chasing Gold. Buy It Before It Catches Up.**

The price differential between the metals has grown, potentially setting the stage for a catch-up rally. Fundamental factors point to gains for silver as well.

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250207003217:0-news-highlights-top-global-markets-news-of-the-day-friday-at-3-am-et/)
