---
title: "Global Equities Roundup: Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-07 20:10:00"
summary: "The latest Market Talks covering Equities. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.1210 GMT - Porsche AG's new strategic measures are the premium car maker's last shot to prove it can turn around the business before losing more trust of long-term shareholders, Deutsche Bank analysts write. A volatile..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The latest Market Talks covering Equities. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.

1210 GMT - Porsche AG's new strategic measures are the premium car maker's last shot to prove it can turn around the business before losing more trust of long-term shareholders, Deutsche Bank analysts write. A volatile adjustment phase had been expected this year, the bank says. This is due to adjusting capacity to offset the China weakness, spending more on combustion engine cars again, increasing the customization share, and changing its leadership. "[Thursday] night, the company made a big step forward toward that; unfortunately also costing more than expected." Summing up all these measures, the company expects additional costs of 800 million euros in 2025 and said it is looking for flattish revenues, while the EBIT margin should decline to 10%-12% against consensus at 14%. Shares trade 5.5% lower at 56.58 euros. (dominic.chopping@wsj.com)

1206 GMT - BCE is looking at divestitures to lower its leverage levels. The Canadian telecom giant is targeting C$7 billion in asset monetizations in the 2024-25 period and currently it has pending Northwestel sale for up to C$1 billion and the MLSE sale for C$4.7 billion expected to close in 2H. Adam Shine of National Bank of Canada says other sales this year could include its 20% stake in NHL team Montreal Canadiens, the company's smart home business, and perhaps its two-way mobile radio business. (adriano.marchese@wsj.com)

1148 GMT - Adnoc Gas has strong growth potential, its domestic margins are strengthening, and there is room for dividend growth, analysts at HSBC write. A new 10-year contract with Emirates Water and Electricity Company will boost earnings, they write. The analysts raise the stock's target price to 4.20 dirham from 4.10 dirham due to the attractive terms of the new contract. Shares trade down 1.13% at 3.50 dirham. (adam.whittaker@wsj.com)

1143 GMT - Porsche AG reported a weak outlook, with the mid-point of its 2025 guidance implying consensus earnings-per-share downgrades of around 25%, UBS's Patrick Hummel writes. Revenues are guided at 39 billion-40 billion euros, which is in line with consensus. However, the operating margin corridor is expected at 10%-12% versus consensus of 14.4%. Meanwhile, the automotive net cash flow margin guidance of 7%-9% compares to an 8.8% consensus. UBS says that the recently disclosed executive changes and development of new combustion engine cars are opportunities to get the business back on track. However, this will take time and investments will remain high. "A turnaround of the negative earnings trend is not a matter of just a couple of quarters." Shares trade 5.3% lower at 56.68 euros. (dominic.chopping@wsj.com)

1134 GMT - Aurubis is off to a solid start after a series of setbacks and headwinds in the primary smelting markets, Deutsche Bank Research analyst Bastian Synagowitz says in a research note. The German metals supplier posted first-quarter operating pretax earnings in line with expectations and a free-cash-flow that was significantly better than expected, the analyst says. "This should put the company well on track to achieve unchanged guidance." Shares trade 1.5% higher at 81.45 euros. (nina.kienle@wsj.com)

1118 GMT - Alstom is well on track to deliver its 8% to 10% margin objective with compound annual earnings growth rate of 25% by fiscal 2027, Deutsche Bank Research analyst Gael de-Bray says. The French train maker's free cash flow generation will also be structurally higher in the future, with 1 billion euros becoming the new normal from fiscal 2028 onward, the analyst says in a research note. "While the stock currently discounts a long-term margin of only 5% to 6%, we see 9% to 10% as a credible margin outcome by 2030, driven by significant industrial rationalization opportunities", de-Bray says. Perceived competition risks from China are overdone as 80% of group revenue should remain relatively well protected, the analyst adds. Shares trade 1.2% higher at 20.08 euros. (nina.kienle@wsj.com)

1117 GMT - Sterling could benefit as the Bank of England is likely to maintain a gradual pace of interest rate cuts in the near-term, Morgan Stanley analysts say in a note. The BOE cut rates by 25 basis points, but two members voted for a 50 bp reduction and the messaging centered on headwinds to growth, they say. The forecasts, however, embedded a fair degree of inflation persistence. Market pricing for BOE rates should remain elevated compared to peers in the near-term. The U.K. also looks less likely to be hit by trade tensions with the U.S. Morgan Stanley advises buying sterling versus the dollar with a target price of $1.2700 and stop loss of $1.23. Sterling rises 0.1% to $1.2445. (renae.dyer@wsj.com)

1053 GMT - Legal & General Group's U.S. insurance businesses sale makes strategic sense and the subsequent capital returns boost management's credibility after disappointing returns from the Cala sale, BofA Securities analysts write. L&G plans to return 1.0 billion pounds of the funds to shareholders via buybacks upon completion of the deal. The analysts say they already expected a 500 million pound buyback in this year and now see scope for about 1.2 billion next year. Shares are up 5.5% at 252.0 pence and are leading the FTSE 100-index gainers.(ian.walker@wsj.com.)

1053 GMT - Wizz Air's unit revenue will likely be supported by demand growth in Eastern Europe, HSBC analyst Ruxandra Haradau-Doeser says in a research note. The International Monetary Fund expects GDP growth in the region to outperform overall European trends, she says. The low-cost airline's plans to add capacity to its network will allow it to improve market awareness, attract more corporate passengers and secure attractive slots at its main airports, Haradau-Doeser says. As capacity and the frequency of flights increase, Wizz Air should be able to lower airport charges, raise asset utilization and crew productivity, the analyst says. Shares trade flat at 14.97 pounds. (pierre.bertrand@wsj.com)

1050 GMT - L'Oreal's 2024 results were disappointing but not surprising, Bryan Garnier analyst Loic Morvan says in a research note. The French beauty giant booked sales of 43.48 billion euros in 2024, up 5.1% organically. This growth was less than that seen in 2023 and decelerated each quarter in the year, the analyst says. For 2025, Bryan Garnier expects L'Oreal's sales to grow 5% organically. Shares are down 3.7% at 340.15 euros. (andrea.figueras@wsj.com)

1048 GMT - Indian shares edged lower, weighed by bank and technology stocks. Investors digested the market impacts of India's central bank kicking off its easing cycle, cutting its policy rate for the first time in nearly five years on Friday. State Bank of India dropped 1.4% and ICICI Bank declined 1.2%. Tata Consultancy Services was off by 1.3% and Infosys shed 0.7%. Tata Steel was the best performer on the benchmark index in this session, gaining 4.3%. India's benchmark Sensex Index ended 0.25% lower at 77860.19. (sherry.qin@wsj.com)

1015 GMT - Amazon.com continues to innovate and raise the bar even as 4Q cloud-computing sales and the tech company's outlook for 1Q came below analysts' expectations, AJ Bell's Dan Coatsworth writes in a research note. "Fundamentally, Amazon remains in great shape," he says. The group can afford to try new things and even fail with some experiments because it generates significant cash flow, Coatsworth notes. This strength should be recognized by investors, he adds. Amazon shares are down 2.7% premarket at $232.33. (mauro.orru@wsj.com)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250207005243:0/)
