---
title: "AMETEK Appoints William P. Callahan Vice President and General Manager, Aerospace & Defense Division"
date: "2025-02-07 21:00:00"
summary: "AMETEK Appoints William P. Callahan Vice President and General Manager, Aerospace &amp; Defense DivisionPR NewswireBERWYN, Pa., Feb. 7, 2025BERWYN, Pa., Feb. 7, 2025 /PRNewswire/ — AMETEK, Inc. today announced the appointment of William P. Callahan as Vice President and General Manager, Aerospace &amp; Defense Division.\"I am delighted to welcome Bill..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

AMETEK Appoints William P. Callahan Vice President and General Manager, Aerospace & Defense Division

PR Newswire

BERWYN, Pa., Feb. 7, 2025

BERWYN, Pa., Feb. 7, 2025 /PRNewswire/ — AMETEK, Inc. today announced the appointment of William P. Callahan as Vice President and General Manager, Aerospace & Defense Division.

"I am delighted to welcome Bill to AMETEK and pleased he will be taking on this important leadership role with the company," commented David A. Zapico, AMETEK Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. "Bill's extensive P&L management experience, strong operational expertise, and proven leadership skills make him ideally suited for this role."

Mr. Callahan brings a strong track record of experience and success, having most recently served as Group General Manager at Amphenol Corporation. Prior to that, Mr. Callahan led the business units of Borisch Technologies and Times Microwave Systems as part of Amphenol. Additionally, he held operational leadership roles at Smiths Group.

Mr. Callahan holds a Bachelor of Science degree in Mechanical Engineering from Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute and a Master of Business Administration degree in Finance from Boston College.

Corporate Profile

AMETEK is a leading global provider of industrial technology solutions serving a diverse set of attractive niche markets with annual sales of approximately $7.0 billion. The AMETEK Growth Model integrates the Four Growth Strategies - Operational Excellence, Technology Innovation, Global and Market Expansion, and Strategic Acquisitions - with a disciplined focus on cash generation and capital deployment. AMETEK's objective is double-digit percentage growth in earnings per share over the business cycle and a superior return on total capital. Founded in 1930, AMETEK has been listed on the NYSE for over 90 years and is a component of the S&P 500. For more information, visit www.ametek.com.

Contact:

Kevin Coleman

Vice President, Investor Relations & Treasurer

kevin.coleman@ametek.com

Phone: 610.889.5247

View original content:https://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/ametek-appoints-william-p-callahan-vice-president-and-general-manager-aerospace--defense-division-302370767.html

SOURCE AMETEK, Inc.

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250207005751:0/)
