---
title: "Global Forex and Fixed Income Roundup: Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-07 19:13:00"
summary: "The latest Market Talks covering FX and Fixed Income. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.1113 GMT - The euro looks vulnerable given President Trump's threats to implement tariffs on the EU, UBS Global Wealth Management analysts say in a note. Trump's focus regarding tariffs is likely to..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The latest Market Talks covering FX and Fixed Income. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.

1113 GMT - The euro looks vulnerable given President Trump's threats to implement tariffs on the EU, UBS Global Wealth Management analysts say in a note. Trump's focus regarding tariffs is likely to turn to Europe next, they say. "Our base case is for select tariffs on EU autos and pharmaceuticals, drawing reciprocal retaliation." A negative reaction is "all but inevitable" for the euro. Beyond tariff considerations, the U.S. macroeconomic backdrop should prove supportive of the dollar. On monetary policy, the Federal Reserve should keep interest rates on hold while the European Central Bank continues to cut rates. UBS recommends selling the euro with a target of $1.0000 and stop loss of $1.0575. It currently trades at $1.0389. (renae.dyer@wsj.com)

1111 GMT - The Bank of England is unlikely to cut interest rates in March due to concerns about persistent inflation and the next reduction is more likely to come in May, Bank of America analysts say in a note. "The BOE [on Thursday] stuck to its cautious guidance, emphasizing a "careful", gradual and meeting-by-meeting approach as well as need for policy to remain restrictive, amid greater uncertainty," BofA says. With U.K. economic growth deteriorating, the analysts expect the BOE to conduct once-per-quarter interest-rate cuts for the remainder of 2025. (miriam.mukuru@wsj.com)

1102 GMT - Citi Research takes a short position in French government bonds, or OATs. This follows a recent significant narrowing in the spread between 10-year French and German bond yields, and Citi says medium-term fiscal, economic, political and ratings risk remain. Citi targets a widening in the 10-year OAT-Bund spread to 110 basis points over the medium term, from 71 basis points currently. "Entry levels look attractive to position for our medium-term target," strategist Aman Bansal says in a note. The government surviving a no-confidence vote and the passage of the 2025 budget have helped French government bonds since mid-January, he says. The OAT-Bund spread hit 88 basis points at the start of 2025, according to Tradeweb. (emese.bartha@wsj.com)

1102 GMT - The Canadian dollar faces renewed weakness in the short-term due to lingering risks of U.S. tariffs, UBS Global Wealth Management analysts say in a note. The market reaction to Trump's proposed 25% tariff on Canada was rather benign and was completely reversed after the implementation of the levy was delayed, they say. While tariffs are unlikely to be implemented in that form, a "risk of some adverse trade action remains." USD/CAD could rise back towards 1.46 in the coming months, from 1.4313 currently. This could also happen purely due to U.S. dollar strength, even in the absence of tariffs on Canada, UBS says. (renae.dyer@wsj.com)

1059 GMT - Bitcoin edges higher but remains below the key $100,000 level amid cautious risk sentiment ahead of U.S. nonfarm payrolls data later. "Traders are eyeing macroeconomic data for risk sentiment cues," Saxo Bank analysts say in a note. Bitcoin is facing resistance at $98,000, they say. The cryptocurrency last trades up 0.5% at $97,329, according to LSEG. The payrolls data are due at 1330 GMT.Economists in WSJ survey expect the data to show payrolls rose 169,000 in January after a 256,000 increase in December. The jobless rate is expected to remain at 4.1% and wage growth is seen slowing to 3.7%. (renae.dyer@wsj.com)

1048 GMT - Indian shares edged lower, weighed by bank and technology stocks. Investors digested the market impacts of India's central bank kicking off its easing cycle, cutting its policy rate for the first time in nearly five years on Friday. State Bank of India dropped 1.4% and ICICI Bank declined 1.2%. Tata Consultancy Services was off by 1.3% and Infosys shed 0.7%. Tata Steel was the best performer on the benchmark index in this session, gaining 4.3%. India's benchmark Sensex Index ended 0.25% lower at 77860.19. (sherry.qin@wsj.com)

1036 GMT - U.S. 10-year Treasury yields are steady on caution ahead of U.S. jobs data at 1330 GMT which could offer hints on the interest-rate outlook. The Fed recently confirmed it was in no hurry to cut interest rates further, even as it left the door open to further reductions. Robust jobs figures would encourage the idea that there is little or possibly no scope for further rate cuts. Conversely, weak data could increase prospects of rate cuts, potentially weighing down on Treasury yields and the dollar, says DHF Capital S.A.'s Bas Kooijman in a note. The market continues to price two 25 basis point Fed rate cuts this year. Ten-year Treasury yields trade steady at 4.438%. (emese.bartha@wsj.com)

1002 GMT - Demand in the sterling corporate bonds market is falling as investors prefer to invest instead in U.K. government bonds where there are tax benefits, Barclays analysts say in a note. "The tax advantages of low-cash-price gilts makes them hard to beat as an investment for households paying the top rate of income tax," the analysts say. The tax benefits are diverting retail investments into the gilt market and away from corporate bonds where there are no such benefits, Barclays says. (miriam.mukuru@wsj.com)

0933 GMT - Supply of sterling-denominated corporate bonds has declined considerably in recent years as U.K. companies increasingly issue bonds in the dollar market, Barclays analysts say in a note. "A key drive of this has been the steady shift by U.K. corporates into the dollar investment-grade market, reducing their borrowing in the sterling investment-grade [market] over the last 10 years," Barclays says. Other regions have also reduced issuance in sterling, worsening the decline, they say. "Sterling issuance has been disappointing for several quarters, with 2024 gross supply ending the year at 52.2 billion pounds ($64.9 billion), far short of the 70 billion pounds we forecast at the beginning of the year," Barclays says. (miriam.mukuru@wsj.com)

0931 GMT - The Polish zloty, Hungarian forint and Czech koruna rally on the prospect of a deal to end the war in Ukraine after the U.S. Trump administration mentioned progress on this, ING's Frantisek Taborsky says in a note. "The simultaneous rally in FX and rates suggests that positive sentiment on this [Ukraine] is likely driving the move." The zloty is particularly strong after Polish central bank Governor Adam Glapinski said Thursday there is no indication for interest rate cuts in 2025. The Polish zloty rises to its highest since April 2018 at 4.1860 per euro; the Hungarian forint hits a three-month high of 404.0331 per euro; and the Czech koruna rises to a six-week high of 25.0150 per euro, according to FactSet. (renae.dyer@wsj.com)

0908 GMT - A weaker-than-expected inflation print from China could exacerbate pressure on the yuan while supporting demand for government bonds, potentially lowering yields further, says Hassan Fawaz, chairman of broker GivTrade. Expectations are for the inflation report, due Sunday, to show that the rate held at 0.1% on year, he says. Trade tensions between China and the U.S. could further pressure investor sentiment, weighing on the yuan, he adds. Tariffs imposed by Trump have raised concerns about economic growth, which could keep the outlook for the yuan bearish in the near term and maintain downward pressure on yields. (fabiana.negrinochoa@wsj.com)

0852 GMT - Yields on U.K. government bonds rise due to concerns about higher inflation keeping interest rates elevated. The Bank of England on Thursday cut interest rates but raised its inflation forecast for the third quarter to 3.7% from 2.8% in its November forecast. "The most striking announcement from the Bank of England [on Thursday] is not the cut in interest rates, but the prospect of inflation rising to 3.7% this year while its forecasts show the economy continuing to flirt with recession," AJ Bell's Laith Khalaf says in a note. The 10-year gilt yield rises 1 basis point to 4.472%, while eurozone bond yields are mostly slightly lower, Tradeweb data show. (miriam.mukuru@wsj.com)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250207004455:0/)
