---
title: "Newell Brands Projects 2025 Revenue Decline"
date: "2025-02-07 20:38:00"
summary: "By Dean SealNewell Brands is guiding for sales to decline this year after volumes fell and foreign exchange rates were a headwind in the fourth quarter.The maker of Yankee Candle and Sharpie pens said it expects sales to decline 2% to 4% in 2025, and for adjusted earnings, which strip..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Dean Seal

Newell Brands is guiding for sales to decline this year after volumes fell and foreign exchange rates were a headwind in the fourth quarter.

The maker of Yankee Candle and Sharpie pens said it expects sales to decline 2% to 4% in 2025, and for adjusted earnings, which strip out one-time items, to come in at 70 cents to 76 cents a share.

Analysts polled by FactSet had been projecting 75 cents a share in 2025 adjusted earnings, and for sales to be about flat with last year.

Newell also forecast an adjusted loss of 6 cents to 9 cents a share for the first quarter, against analyst targets for adjusted earnings of 3 cents a share. The company expects a 5% to 8% decline in sales for the quarter, while analysts had been expecting a 3.4% decrease.

For the last three months of 2024, Newell posted a loss of $54 million, or 13 cents a share, compared with a loss of $86 million, or 21 cents a share, in the same quarter a year ago.

Gross margin improved during the quarter from productivity savings and higher prices, which more than offset lower sales volumes, inflation and foreign exchange impacts.

Stripping out restructuring costs and other one-time items, adjusted earnings were 16 cents a share. Analysts surveyed by FactSet had been expecting 14 cents a share.

Sales fell 6.1% to $1.95 billion, just below analyst forecasts for $1.96 billion, according to FactSet.

Core sales, an adjusted revenue metric, were down 3%. Unfavorable foreign currency translation and business exits accounted for the rest of the shortfall.

Newell said it priced products in its international markets to offset inflation and currency movements, which supported the company's core sales.

Write to Dean Seal at dean.seal@wsj.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250207005560:0/)
