---
title: "Global Forex and Fixed Income Roundup: Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-07 21:39:00"
summary: "The latest Market Talks covering FX and Fixed Income. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.0839 ET - In January, employment in goods-producing industries such as manufacturing and mining was flat, similar to December. Instead, services jobs, especially in customer-facing industries, drove most of the 143,000 overall job..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The latest Market Talks covering FX and Fixed Income. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.

0839 ET - In January, employment in goods-producing industries such as manufacturing and mining was flat, similar to December. Instead, services jobs, especially in customer-facing industries, drove most of the 143,000 overall job gains. The retain industry added 34,300 jobs, and healthcare and social assistance added 66,000. Healthcare in particular has remained one of the fastest-growing employment fields for some time. The government sector added 32,000 jobs last month. (matt.grossman@wsj.com, @mattgrossman)

0828 ET - U.K. economic data should prove key to sterling's outlook after the Bank of England cut rates by 25 basis points on Thursday, Bank of America analysts say in a note. Two BOE policymakers unexpectedly preferred a larger 50 basis-point reduction. However, the BOE reiterated plans for gradual rate cuts and its forecasts showed inflation persistence, the analysts say. Upcoming data will be important for determining expectations for March's meeting, for which money markets currently price about a 20% chance of a rate cut, LSEG data show. Sterling could recover some of this week's losses, particularly versus the euro, because persistent inflation "should keep the BOE on track for quarterly cuts for the rest of the year," BofA's analysts say. (renae.dyer@wsj.com)

0818 ET - The 2.4% drop in Germany industrial activity in December cements the weak end to 2024 for the whole of the country's economy, according to ING's Carsten Brzeski. Industrial production remains about 10% below its prepandemic levels, as Germany's economy contracted for the second year in a row. Manufacturing capacity utilization is at lows comparable only to those seen during the financial crisis and the initial lockdowns of the pandemic, Brzeski says in a note. Even after December's strong increase, order books aren't filled enough to kick-start a much-needed turn in the inventory cycle, he says. "Add to this looming tariffs...and the outlook for German industry remains anything but rosy," he adds. (edward.frankl@wsj.com)

0815 ET - Issuance of new euro-denominated corporate bonds is expected to remain heavy this year, LBBW senior credit strategist Matthias Schell says in a note. "We anticipate a slight increase in the volume of new issues to 450 billion euros ($467.3 billion)," he says. A high volume of euro corporate bonds--amounting to 370 billion euros--are maturing in 2026. This could push companies to issue new bonds ahead of the maturities, Schell says. (miriam.mukuru@wsj.com)

0800 ET - Lower yields in the eurozone are driving more U.S. companies to issue euro-denominated corporate bonds, LBBW's Matthias Schell says in a note. In recent months, U.S. companies have been taking advantage of comparatively lower financing levels in Europe, issuing higher volumes of euro bonds, he says. Yields on 'risk-free' 10-year U.S. Treasury bonds are around 4.44%, higher than the yields on euro corporate bonds in the investment-grade index which are around 3.10%, LBBW says. This week, T-Mobile USA issued three new euro bonds totaling 2.75 billion euros ($2.86 billion) and IBM issued four new euro bonds totaling 3.5 billion euros. (miriam.mukuru@wsj.com)

0712 ET - Germany's industrial sector ended 2024 in poor health, and headwinds affecting the sector leave little hope for a sustained recovery this year, Capital Economics' Andrew Kenningham says in a note. Output declined 2.4% in December, leading to its lowest level since May 2020, he says. Production contracted for the third quarter in a row in the last three months of 2024, helping explain why the German economy shrank then. However, there could be a rebound in auto production in the near term and falling interest rates may support business investment in the coming months. But business surveys show sentiment remains at a low ebb and the rising price of European natural gas since mid-December will add to costs ahead for energy-intensive firms, Kenningham adds. (edward.frankl@wsj.com)

0706 ET - The 10-year U.S. Treasury benchmark yield fell clearly below the 4.50% mark for the first time this year, potentially opening the door for further falls, says LBBW's Elmar Voelker in a note. "From a chartist perspective, this yield slide could send a signal to bond bulls," the senior fixed income analyst says. The upward trend in yields, which was initiated in fall 2024 in great part by U.S. President Trump's then-looming election victory, appears to have been broken, he says. The 10-year Treasury yield falls 0.5 basis points to 4.434%, having traded at a 14-month high of 4.809% on Jan. 14, according to Tradeweb. (emese.bartha@wsj.com)

0629 ET - RBC BlueBay Asset Management maintains a broadly neutral stance on U.S. rates but continues to favor German Bunds versus Treasurys, fixed income CIO Mark Dowding says in a note. BlueBay's preference for Bunds is on a relative value basis, given divergent economic performance, he says. "In as much as tariffs represent an upside risk for U.S. inflation, the Federal Reserve is very unlikely to cut interest rates for the foreseeable future," Dowding says. Meanwhile, the European Central Bank could move to accelerate monetary easing, in the case that a trade war adds to economic downside risks, he says. The 10-year Bund yield falls 0.7 basis point to 2.362%, while the 10-year U.S. Treasury yield falls 1bp to 4.430%, according to Tradeweb. (emese.bartha@wsj.com)

0622 ET - Supply of new euro-denominated corporate bonds remained strong in January reaching a total volume of 37.2 billion euros ($38.6 billion), following strong issuance in 2024, LBBW's Matthias Schell says in a note. "Companies took advantage of the positive market environment at the beginning of the year to issue 8 subordinated hybrid bonds, which accounted for a high share of 15% of the January volume," Schell says. Strong demand for new issues also encouraged corporates to issue new bonds, he says. "On average, investors subscribed four times the volume subsequently placed." (miriam.mukuru@wsj.com)

0617 ET - Sterling could benefit as the Bank of England is likely to maintain a gradual pace of interest rate cuts in the near-term, Morgan Stanley analysts say in a note. The BOE cut rates by 25 basis points, but two members voted for a 50 bp reduction and the messaging centered on headwinds to growth, they say. The forecasts, however, embedded a fair degree of inflation persistence. Market pricing for BOE rates should remain elevated compared to peers in the near-term. The U.K. also looks less likely to be hit by trade tensions with the U.S. Morgan Stanley advises buying sterling versus the dollar with a target price of $1.2700 and stop loss of $1.23. Sterling rises 0.1% to $1.2445. (renae.dyer@wsj.com)

0613 ET - The euro looks vulnerable given President Trump's threats to implement tariffs on the EU, UBS Global Wealth Management analysts say in a note. Trump's focus regarding tariffs is likely to turn to Europe next, they say. "Our base case is for select tariffs on EU autos and pharmaceuticals, drawing reciprocal retaliation." A negative reaction is "all but inevitable" for the euro. Beyond tariff considerations, the U.S. macroeconomic backdrop should prove supportive of the dollar. On monetary policy, the Federal Reserve should keep interest rates on hold while the European Central Bank continues to cut rates. UBS recommends selling the euro with a target of $1.0000 and stop loss of $1.0575. It currently trades at $1.0389. (renae.dyer@wsj.com)

0611 ET - The Bank of England is unlikely to cut interest rates in March due to concerns about persistent inflation and the next reduction is more likely to come in May, Bank of America analysts say in a note. "The BOE [on Thursday] stuck to its cautious guidance, emphasizing a "careful", gradual and meeting-by-meeting approach as well as need for policy to remain restrictive, amid greater uncertainty," BofA says. With U.K. economic growth deteriorating, the analysts expect the BOE to conduct once-per-quarter interest-rate cuts for the remainder of 2025. (miriam.mukuru@wsj.com)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250207006390:0/)
