---
title: "Graham Corporation Reports Third Quarter Fiscal 2025 Results"
date: "2025-02-07 19:30:00"
summary: "(11:30 GMT) *Graham Corp 3Q EPS 14c &gt;GHM(11:30 GMT) *Graham Corp 3Q Net $1.59M &gt;GHM(11:30 GMT) *Graham Corp 3Q Sales $47M &gt;GHM(11:30 GMT) Press Release: Graham Corporation Reports Third Quarter Fiscal 2025 ResultsGraham Corporation Reports Third Quarter Fiscal 2025 ResultsRevenue increased 7.3% to $47.0 million driven by continued strength in..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

**(11:30 GMT)** \*Graham Corp 3Q EPS 14c >GHM  
**(11:30 GMT)** \*Graham Corp 3Q Net $1.59M >GHM  
**(11:30 GMT)** \*Graham Corp 3Q Sales $47M >GHM  
**(11:30 GMT)** Press Release: Graham Corporation Reports Third Quarter Fiscal 2025 Results

Graham Corporation Reports Third Quarter Fiscal 2025 Results

* Revenue increased 7.3% to $47.0 million driven by continued strength in key end-markets
* Gross profit margin improved 260 basis points to 24.8% of sales, net margin increased 300 basis points to 3.4% of sales, and adjusted EBITDA margin1 expanded 180 basis points to 8.6% of sales
* Net income per diluted share increased 600% to $0.14 in the third quarter; adjusted net income per diluted share1 increased 38% to $0.18
* Orders of $24.8 million, driven by demand from defense, space, and aftermarket; YTD Book-to-Bill ratio of 1.0x and a backlog of $385 million2
* Strong balance sheet with no debt, $30.0 million in cash, and access to $43 million under its revolving credit facility at quarter end to support growth initiatives
* Reiterated full year guidance for Sales and adjusted EBITDA1

BATAVIA, N.Y.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--February 07, 2025--

Graham Corporation ("GHM" or the "Company"), a global leader in the design and manufacture of mission critical fluid, power, heat transfer and vacuum technologies for the defense, space, energy, and process industries, today reported financial results for its third quarter for the fiscal year ending March 31, 2025 ("fiscal 2025").

"Our strong performance through the first three quarters of our fiscal year reflects continually improving execution across our business. Customer demand for our diversified product portfolio is robust, driving margin expansion through improved product mix and operational efficiency. The progress we have shown to date, coupled with advancing discussions on both new programs and expansions with existing customers, reinforces our confidence in achieving our long-term growth targets," said Daniel J. Thoren, Chief Executive Officer.

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

(1) Adjusted EBITDA margin, Adjusted Net Income per Diluted Share and Adjusted EBITDA are non-GAAP measures. See attached tables and other information for important disclosures regarding Graham's use of these non-GAAP measures.

(2) Orders, backlog and book-to-bill ratio are key performance metrics. See "Key Performance Indicators" below for important disclosures regarding Graham's use of these metrics.

Third Quarter Fiscal 2025 Performance Review

(All comparisons are with the same prior-year period unless noted otherwise.)

```
   
($ in thousands   
except per share   
data)                 Q3 FY25      Q3 FY24     $ Change   % Change   
                    -----------  -----------  ----------  --------   
Net sales           $47,037      $43,818       $   3,219     7%   
Gross profit        $11,686      $ 9,723       $   1,963    20%   
    Gross margin       24.8%        22.2%                 +260 bps   
Operating profit    $ 2,210      $   911       $   1,299    143%   
    Operating   
     margin             4.7%         2.1%                 +260 bps   
Net income          $ 1,588      $   165       $   1,423    862%   
    Net income   
     margin             3.4%         0.4%                 +300 bps   
    Net income per   
     diluted   
     share          $  0.14      $  0.02       $    0.12    600%   
Adjusted net   
 income*            $ 1,966      $ 1,451       $     515    35%   
    Adjusted net   
     income per   
     diluted   
     share*         $  0.18      $  0.13       $    0.05    38%   
Adjusted EBITDA*    $ 4,027      $ 2,965       $   1,062    36%   
    Adjusted   
     EBITDA   
     margin*            8.6%         6.8%                 +180 bps   
 
```

\*Graham believes that, when used in conjunction with measures prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, adjusted net income, adjusted net income per diluted share, adjusted EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA margin, which are non-GAAP measures, help in the understanding of its operating performance. See attached tables and other information for important disclosures regarding Graham's use of these non-GAAP measures.

Quarterly net sales of $47.0 million increased 7.3%, or $3.2 million. Sales to the defense market grew by $2.7 million, or 11.1% from the prior year period, driven by the addition of new defense programs, the ramp-up of existing programs, better execution, and the timing of key project milestones. Additionally, higher chemical/petrochemical sales contributed $2.7 million to growth, driven by increased sales of capital equipment. Aftermarket sales to the refining, chemical/petrochemical, and defense markets of $9.7 million remained strong and were 2.4% higher than the prior year. See supplemental data for a further breakdown of sales by market and region.

Gross profit for the quarter increased $2.0 million to $11.7 million compared to the prior-year period of $9.7 million. As a percentage of sales, gross profit margin increased 260 basis points to 24.8%, compared to the fiscal third quarter of 2024. This increase was driven by leverage on higher volume, better execution, and improved pricing, partially offset by higher incentive compensation compared to the prior year period.

Additionally, the third quarter of fiscal 2025 gross profit benefited $0.3 million from a $2.1 million grant received from the BlueForge Alliance earlier this fiscal year to reimburse Graham for the cost of the Company's defense welder training programs in Batavia and related equipment. To date, the Company has received $1.5 million of funding under this grant.

Selling, general and administrative expense ("SG&A"), including amortization, totaled $9.7 million, or 20.6% of sales, up $0.9 million compared with the prior year. This increase reflects the Company's continued investments in its people, processes, and technology to drive long-term sustainable growth.

Included in other operating income for the third quarter of fiscal 2025 was a $0.2 million reversal of a previously accrued contingent earnout liability for P3. The reversal was due to delayed orders/projects that extended beyond the earnout period.

Cash Management and Balance Sheet

Cash provided by operating activities totaled $27.9 million for the nine-month period ending December 31, 2024, an increase of $8.4 million from the comparable period in fiscal 2024. As of December 31, 2024, cash and cash equivalents were $30.0 million, up from $16.9 million at the end of fiscal 2024.

Capital expenditures of $13.8 million for the first nine months of fiscal 2025 were focused on capacity expansion, increasing capabilities, and productivity improvements. The Company increased its expected fiscal 2025 capital expenditures to be in the range of $15.0 million to $19.0 million from its previous expectations of $13.0 million to $18.0 million due to a faster pace of execution on the capital projects in process. All major capital projects are on time and on budget.

The Company had no debt outstanding at December 31, 2024 with $43 million available on its revolving credit facility after taking into account outstanding letters of credit.

Orders, Backlog, and Book-to-Bill Ratio

See supplemental data filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on Form 8-K and provided on the Company's website for a further breakdown of orders and backlog by market. See "Key Performance Indicators" below for important disclosures regarding Graham's use of these metrics.

```
   
(in millions)    Q2 24   Q3 24   Q4 24    FY24   Q1 25   Q2 25   Q3 25    FY25   
--------------   ------  ------  ------  ------  ------  ------  ------  ------   
Orders           $ 36.5  $123.3  $ 40.8  $268.4  $ 55.8  $ 63.7  $ 24.8  $144.2   
---------------   -----   -----   -----   -----   -----   -----   -----   -----   
Backlog          $313.3  $399.2  $390.9  $390.9  $396.8  $407.0  $384.7  $384.7   
 
```

As expected, orders for the third quarter of fiscal 2025 declined to $24.8 million given the higher level of orders earlier in the fiscal year. Orders tend to be lumpy given the nature of our business (i.e. large capital projects) and in particular, orders to the defense industry, which span multiple years and are larger in size. Orders for the nine-month period ended December 31, 2024, were $144.2 million, resulting in a year-to-date book-to-bill ratio of 1.0x. After-market orders for the refining, petrochemical, and defense markets remained strong and totaled $13.0 million for the third quarter of fiscal 2025, an increase of 51% over the prior year.

Backlog at quarter end was $384.7 million, down 3.6% over the prior-year period and down 5.5% sequentially. Approximately 45% to 50% of orders currently in backlog are expected to be converted to sales in the next twelve months and another 35% to 40% are expected to convert to sales within one to two years. The majority of orders expected to convert beyond twelve months are for the defense industry, specifically the U.S. Navy.

Fiscal 2025 Outlook

The Company's outlook for 2025 was updated as follows:

```
   
                                Updated Fiscal 2025   
 (as of February 7, 2025)             Guidance            Previous Guidance   
-----------------------------  ----------------------  -----------------------   
                                $200 million to $210    $200 million to $210   
 Net Sales                      million                 million   
-----------------------------  ----------------------  -----------------------   
 Gross Margin                   24% to 25% of sales     23% to 24% of sales   
-----------------------------  ----------------------  -----------------------   
 SG&A expense (including   
 amortization)(1)               18% to 19% of sales     17% to 18% of sales   
-----------------------------  ----------------------  -----------------------   
                                $18 million to $21      $18 million to $21   
 Adjusted EBITDA(2)             million                 million   
-----------------------------  ----------------------  -----------------------   
 Effective Tax Rate             20% to 22%              20% to 22%   
-----------------------------  ----------------------  -----------------------   
 Capital Expenditures           $15.0 million to        $13.0 million to $18.0   
                                $19.0 million           million   
-----------------------------  ----------------------  -----------------------   
   
   
(1)    Includes approximately $6.5 million to $7.5 million of Barber-Nichols   
       supplemental performance bonus, equity-based compensation, and   
       enterprise resource planning ("ERP") conversion costs included in SG&A   
       expense.   
(2)    Excludes net interest expense, income taxes, depreciation, and   
       amortization from net income, as well as approximately $2.0 million to   
       $3.0 million of equity-based compensation and ERP conversion costs   
       included in SG&A expense and approximately $0.9 million of acquisition   
       and integration income, net.   
 
```

Webcast and Conference Call

GHM's management will host a conference call and live webcast on February 7, 2025 at 11:00 a.m. Eastern Time ("ET") to review its financial results as well as its strategy and outlook. The review will be accompanied by a slide presentation, which will be made available immediately prior to the conference call on GHM's investor relations website.

A question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation. GHM's conference call can be accessed by calling (201) 689-8560. Alternatively, the webcast can be monitored from the events section of GHM's investor relations website.

A telephonic replay will be available from 3:00 p.m. ET today through Friday, February 14, 2025. To listen to the archived call, dial (412) 317-6671 and enter conference ID number 13750971 or access the webcast replay via the Company's website at ir.grahamcorp.com, where a transcript will also be posted once available.

About Graham Corporation

Graham is a global leader in the design and manufacture of mission critical fluid, power, heat transfer and vacuum technologies for the defense, space, energy, and process industries. Graham Corporation and its family of global brands are built upon world-renowned engineering expertise in vacuum and heat transfer, cryogenic pumps, and turbomachinery technologies, as well as its responsive and flexible service and the unsurpassed quality customers have come to expect from the Company's products and systems. Graham Corporation routinely posts news and other important information on its website, grahamcorp.com, where additional information on Graham Corporation and its businesses can be found.

Safe Harbor Regarding Forward Looking Statements

This news release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.

Forward-looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions and are identified by words such as "expects," "future," "outlook," "anticipates," "believes," "could," "guidance," "may", "will, " "plan" and other similar words. All statements addressing operating performance, events, or developments that Graham Corporation expects or anticipates will occur in the future, including but not limited to, profitability of future projects and the business, its ability to deliver to plan, its ability to continue to strengthen relationships with customers in the defense industry, its ability to secure future projects and applications, expected expansion and growth opportunities, anticipated sales, revenues, adjusted EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA margins, capital expenditures and SG&A expenses, the timing of conversion of backlog to sales, orders, market presence, profit margins, tax rates, foreign sales operations, customer preferences, changes in market conditions in the industries in which it operates, changes in general economic conditions and customer behavior, forecasts regarding the timing and scope of the economic recovery in its markets, and its acquisition and growth strategy, are forward-looking statements. Because they are forward-looking, they should be evaluated in light of important risk factors and uncertainties. These risk factors and uncertainties are more fully described in Graham Corporation's most recent Annual Report filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"), included under the heading entitled "Risk Factors", and in other reports filed with the SEC.

Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize or should any of Graham Corporation's underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may vary materially from those currently anticipated. In addition, undue reliance should not be placed on Graham Corporation's forward-looking statements. Except as required by law, Graham Corporation disclaims any obligation to update or publicly announce any revisions to any of the forward-looking statements contained in this news release.

Non-GAAP Financial Measures

Adjusted EBITDA is defined as consolidated net income (loss) before net interest expense, income taxes, depreciation, amortization, other acquisition related expenses, and other unusual/nonrecurring expenses. Adjusted EBITDA margin is defined as Adjusted EBITDA as a percentage of sales. Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA margin are not measures determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States, commonly known as GAAP. Nevertheless, Graham believes that providing non-GAAP information, such as Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA margin, is important for investors and other readers of Graham's financial statements, as it is used as an analytical indicator by Graham's management to better understand operating performance. Moreover, Graham's credit facility also contains ratios based on Adjusted EBITDA. Because Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA margin are non-GAAP measures and are thus susceptible to varying calculations, Adjusted EBITDA, and Adjusted EBITDA margin, as presented, may not be directly comparable to other similarly titled measures used by other companies.

Adjusted net income and adjusted net income per diluted share are defined as net income and net income per diluted share as reported, adjusted for certain items and at a normalized tax rate. Adjusted net income and adjusted net income per diluted share are not measures determined in accordance with GAAP, and may not be comparable to the measures as used by other companies. Nevertheless, Graham believes that providing non-GAAP information, such as adjusted net income and adjusted net income per diluted share, is important for investors and other readers of the Company's financial statements and assists in understanding the comparison of the current quarter's and current fiscal year's net income and net income per diluted share to the historical periods' net income and net income per diluted share. Graham also believes that adjusted net income per share, which adds back intangible amortization expense related to acquisitions, provides a better representation of the cash earnings of the Company.

Forward-Looking Non-GAAP Measures

Forward-looking adjusted EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA margin are non-GAAP measures. The Company is unable to present a quantitative reconciliation of these forward-looking non-GAAP financial measures to their most directly comparable forward-looking GAAP financial measures because such information is not available, and management cannot reliably predict the necessary components of such GAAP measures without unreasonable effort largely because forecasting or predicting our future operating results is subject to many factors out of our control or not readily predictable. In addition, the Company believes that such reconciliations would imply a degree of precision that would be confusing or misleading to investors. The unavailable information could have a significant impact on the Company's fiscal 2025 financial results. These non-GAAP financial measures are preliminary estimates and are subject to risks and uncertainties, including, among others, changes in connection with purchase accounting, quarter-end, and year-end adjustments. Any variation between the Company's actual results and preliminary financial estimates set forth above may be material.

Key Performance Indicators

In addition to the foregoing non-GAAP measures, management uses the following key performance metrics to analyze and measure the Company's financial performance and results of operations: orders, backlog, and book-to-bill ratio. Management uses orders and backlog as measures of current and future business and financial performance, and these may not be comparable with measures provided by other companies. Orders represent written communications received from customers requesting the Company to provide products and/or services. Backlog is defined as the total dollar value of net orders received for which revenue has not yet been recognized. Management believes tracking orders and backlog are useful as they often times are leading indicators of future performance. In accordance with industry practice, contracts may include provisions for cancellation, termination, or suspension at the discretion of the customer.

The book-to-bill ratio is an operational measure that management uses to track the growth prospects of the Company. The Company calculates the book-to-bill ratio for a given period as net orders divided by net sales.

Given that each of orders, backlog, and book-to-bill ratio are operational measures and that the Company's methodology for calculating orders, backlog and book-to-bill ratio does not meet the definition of a non-GAAP measure, as that term is defined by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, a quantitative reconciliation for each is not required or provided.

```
   
FINANCIAL TABLES   
 FOLLOW.   
   
                                       Graham Corporation   
                        Consolidated Statements of Operations - Unaudited   
                          (Amounts in thousands, except per share data)   
   
                                 Three Months Ended                   Nine Months Ended   
                                    December 31,                         December 31,   
                         ----------------------------------  ------------------------------------   
   
                           2024         2023       % Change    2024          2023        % Change   
                          ------       ------      --------   -------       -------      --------   
Net sales                $47,037      $43,818         7%     $150,551      $136,463        10%   
    Cost of products   
     sold                 35,351       34,095         4%      113,698       108,572         5%   
                          ------       ------                 -------       -------   
    Gross profit          11,686        9,723        20%       36,853        27,891        32%   
        Gross margin        24.8%        22.2%                   24.5%         20.4%   
   
Operating expenses and   
income:   
    Selling, general   
     and   
     administrative        9,260        8,429        10%       26,821        21,563        24%   
    Selling, general   
     and administrative   
     -- amortization         436          383        14%        1,309           930        41%   
    Other operating   
     income                 (220)           -         NA         (946)            -         NA   
                          ------       ------                 -------       -------   
        Operating   
         profit            2,210          911        143%       9,669         5,398        79%   
                          ------       ------                 -------       -------   
            Operating   
             margin          4.7%         2.1%                    6.4%          4.0%   
   
    Loss on   
     extinguishment of   
     debt                      -          726       (100%)          -           726       (100%)   
    Other expense, net        91           93        (2%)         273           280        (3%)   
    Interest (income)   
     expense, net           (128)          37         NA         (442)          277         NA   
                          ------       ------                 -------       -------   
Income before provision   
 (benefit) for income   
 taxes                     2,247           55         NA        9,838         4,115        139%   
Provision (benefit) for   
 income taxes                659         (110)        NA        2,003           899        123%   
                          ------       ------                 -------       -------   
Net income               $ 1,588      $   165        862%    $  7,835      $  3,216        144%   
                          ======       ======                 =======       =======   
   
Per share data:   
        Basic:   
            Net income   $  0.15      $  0.02        650%    $   0.72      $   0.30        140%   
                          ======       ======                 =======       =======   
        Diluted:   
            Net income   $  0.14      $  0.02        600%    $   0.71      $   0.30        137%   
                          ======       ======                 =======       =======   
   
Weighted average   
common shares   
outstanding:   
    Basic                 10,890       10,775                  10,880        10,709   
    Diluted               11,057       10,920                  11,016        10,792   
   
NA: Not Applicable   
   
   
                          Graham Corporation   
               Consolidated Balance Sheets -- Unaudited   
             (Amounts in thousands, except per share data)   
   
                                            December 31,    March 31,   
                                                 2024        2024   
                                               ---------    -------   
Assets   
Current assets:   
    Cash and cash equivalents               $     30,046   $ 16,939   
    Trade accounts receivable, net of   
     allowances ($402 and $79 at December   
     31, and March 31, 2024,   
     respectively)                                34,951     44,400   
    Unbilled revenue                              37,777     28,015   
    Inventories                                   39,026     33,410   
    Prepaid expenses and other current   
     assets                                        3,866      3,561   
    Income taxes receivable                           46          -   
                                               ---------    -------   
            Total current assets                 145,712    126,325   
Property, plant and equipment, net                44,133     32,080   
Prepaid pension asset                              6,571      6,396   
Operating lease assets                             6,433      7,306   
Goodwill                                          25,520     25,520   
Customer relationships, net                       13,444     14,299   
Technology and technical know-how, net            10,499     11,065   
Other intangible assets, net                       6,939      7,181   
Deferred income tax asset                          2,928      2,983   
Other assets                                       2,071        724   
                                               ---------    -------   
            Total assets                    $    264,250   $233,879   
                                               =========    =======   
   
Liabilities and stockholders' equity   
Current liabilities:   
    Current portion of finance lease   
     obligations                            $         21   $     20   
    Accounts payable                              25,390     20,788   
    Accrued compensation                          16,695     16,800   
    Accrued expenses and other current   
     liabilities                                   4,645      6,666   
    Customer deposits                             92,971     71,987   
    Operating lease liabilities                    1,138      1,237   
    Income taxes payable                              65        715   
                                               ---------    -------   
            Total current liabilities            140,925    118,213   
Finance lease obligations                             51         65   
Operating lease liabilities                        5,630      6,449   
Accrued pension and postretirement   
 benefit liabilities                               1,257      1,254   
Other long-term liabilities                        1,956      2,332   
                                               ---------    -------   
            Total liabilities                    149,819    128,313   
                                               ---------    -------   
   
Stockholders' equity:   
    Preferred stock, $1.00 par value,   
    500 shares authorized                              -          -   
    Common stock, $0.10 par value, 25,500   
     shares authorized, 11,064 and 10,993   
     shares issued and 10,890 and 10,850   
     shares outstanding at December 31   
     and March 31, 2024, respectively              1,106      1,099   
    Capital in excess of par value                33,546     32,015   
    Retained earnings                             89,834     81,999   
    Accumulated other comprehensive loss          (6,667)    (7,013)   
    Treasury stock (174 and 143 shares at   
     December 31, and March 31, 2024,   
     respectively)                                (3,388)    (2,534)   
                                               ---------    -------   
            Total stockholders' equity           114,431    105,566   
                                               ---------    -------   
            Total liabilities and   
             stockholders' equity           $    264,250   $233,879   
                                               =========    =======   
   
   
                         Graham Corporation   
         Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows -- Unaudited   
                       (Amounts in thousands)   
   
                                                Nine Months Ended   
                                                   December 31,   
                                              ----------------------   
                                                2024       2023   
                                               -------    -------   
Operating activities:   
    Net income                                $  7,835   $  3,216   
        Adjustments to reconcile net income   
        to net cash provided by operating   
        activities:   
            Depreciation                         2,712      2,375   
            Amortization of intangible   
             assets                              1,663      1,487   
            Amortization of actuarial losses       586        632   
            Amortization of debt issuance   
             costs                                   -        131   
            Equity-based compensation   
             expense                             1,204      1,002   
            Loss on extinguishment of debt           -        726   
            Change in fair value of   
             contingent consideration             (946)         -   
            Deferred income taxes                  (91)       935   
            (Increase) decrease in   
            operating assets, net of   
            acquisitions:   
                Accounts receivable              9,394    (11,335)   
                Unbilled revenue                (9,879)    11,213   
                Inventories                     (5,628)    (4,357)   
                Prepaid expenses and other   
                 current and non-current   
                 assets                         (1,665)    (1,526)   
                Income taxes receivable            (46)      (459)   
                Operating lease assets             965        894   
                Prepaid pension asset             (175)      (215)   
            Increase (decrease) in   
            operating liabilities, net of   
            acquisitions:   
                Accounts payable                 3,914     (3,949)   
                Accrued compensation,   
                 accrued expenses and other   
                 current and non-current   
                 liabilities                    (1,380)     2,948   
                Customer deposits               21,000     16,590   
                Operating lease liabilities       (948)      (825)   
                Income taxes payable              (646)         -   
                Long-term portion of accrued   
                 compensation, accrued   
                 pension, and postretirement   
                 benefit liabilities                 4          -   
                                               -------    -------   
    Net cash provided by operating   
     activities                                 27,873     19,483   
                                               -------    -------   
Investing activities:   
    Purchase of property, plant and   
     equipment                                 (13,800)    (5,193)   
    Proceeds from disposal of property,   
     plant and equipment                             -         38   
    Acquisition of P3 Technologies, LLC           (170)    (6,812)   
                                               -------    -------   
    Net cash used by investing activities      (13,970)   (11,967)   
                                               -------    -------   
Financing activities:   
    Borrowings of short-term debt   
     obligations                                     -     13,000   
    Principal repayments on debt                     -    (22,522)   
    Payment of debt exit costs                       -       (752)   
    Repayments on finance lease obligations       (237)      (224)   
    Issuance of common stock                       334        225   
    Payment of debt issuance costs                   -       (241)   
    Purchase of treasury stock                    (854)       (57)   
                                               -------    -------   
    Net cash used by financing activities         (757)   (10,571)   
                                               -------    -------   
    Effect of exchange rate changes on cash        (39)       (39)   
                                               -------    -------   
    Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash   
     equivalents                                13,107     (3,094)   
    Cash and cash equivalents at beginning   
     of period                                  16,939     18,257   
                                               -------    -------   
    Cash and cash equivalents at end of   
     period                                   $ 30,046   $ 15,163   
                                               =======    =======   
   
   
                            Graham Corporation   
                      Adjusted EBITDA Reconciliation   
                        (Unaudited, $ in thousands)   
   
                         Three Months Ended         Nine Months Ended   
                            December 31,               December 31,   
                      ------------------------  --------------------------   
                        2024         2023         2024          2023   
                       ------       ------       -------       -------   
Net income            $ 1,588      $   165      $  7,835      $  3,216   
    Acquisition &   
     integration   
     (income)   
     expense             (220)         274          (900)          274   
    Debt amendment   
     costs                  -          744             -           744   
    ERP   
     Implementation   
     costs                157           56           704            56   
    Net interest   
     (income)   
     expense             (128)          37          (442)          277   
    Income tax   
     expense   
     (benefit)            659         (110)        2,003           899   
    Equity-based   
     compensation   
     expense              426          377         1,204         1,002   
    Depreciation &   
     amortization       1,545        1,422         4,375         3,862   
                       ------       ------       -------       -------   
    Adjusted   
     EBITDA(1)        $ 4,027      $ 2,965      $ 14,779      $ 10,330   
                       ======       ======       =======       =======   
   
    Net sales         $47,037      $43,818      $150,551      $136,463   
   
    Net income   
     margin               3.4%         0.4%          5.2%          2.4%   
    Adjusted EBITDA   
     margin               8.6%         6.8%          9.8%          7.6%   
 
```

(1) Beginning in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2024, Adjusted EBITDA no longer excludes the Barber-Nichols supplemental performance bonus, but now excludes the impact of non-cash equity-based compensation expense in order to be more consistent with market practice. Prior period results have been adjusted to reflect these changes on a comparable basis. The Barber-Nichols supplemental performance bonus expense was $1.1 million and $3.2 million for the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2025, respectively, and $1.3 million and $2.8 million for the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2024, respectively, and will be completed at the end of fiscal year 2026.

```
   
Graham Corporation Adjusted Net Income and Adjusted Net Income   
 per Diluted Share Reconciliation (Unaudited, $ in thousands,   
                  except per share amounts)   
   
                      Three Months Ended   Nine Months Ended   
                         December 31,         December 31,   
                      ------------------  --------------------   
                        2024      2023      2024      2023   
                       ------    ------    ------    ------   
Net income            $ 1,588   $   165   $ 7,835   $ 3,216   
    Acquisition &   
     integration   
     (income)   
     expense             (220)      274      (900)      274   
    Amortization of   
     intangible   
     assets               554       596     1,663     1,487   
    Debt amendment   
     costs                  -       744         -       744   
    ERP   
     Implementation   
     costs                157        56       704        56   
    Normalized tax   
     rate(1)             (113)     (384)     (337)     (589)   
                       ------    ------    ------    ------   
    Adjusted net   
     income(2)        $ 1,966   $ 1,451   $ 8,965   $ 5,188   
                       ======    ======    ======    ======   
    GAAP net income   
     per diluted   
     share            $  0.14   $  0.02   $  0.71   $  0.30   
    Adjusted net   
     income per   
     diluted   
     share(2)         $  0.18   $  0.13   $  0.81   $  0.48   
    Diluted weighted   
     average common   
     shares   
     outstanding       11,057    10,920    11,016    10,792   
 
```

(1) Applies a normalized tax rate to non-GAAP adjustments, which are pre-tax, based upon the statutory tax rate.

(2) Beginning in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2024, Adjusted Net Income no longer excludes the Barber-Nichols supplemental performance bonus. Prior period results have been adjusted to reflect this change on a comparable basis. The Barber-Nichols performance bonus expense, net-of-tax, was $0.8 million and $2.5 million for the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2025, respectively, and $1.0 million and $2.2 million for the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2024, respectively, and will be completed at the end of fiscal year 2026.

Acquisition and integration (income) expense are incremental costs that are directly related to and as a result of the P3 acquisition. These costs (income) may include, among other things, professional, consulting and other fees, system integration costs, and contingent consideration fair value adjustments. ERP implementation costs primarily relate to consulting costs (training, data conversion, and project management) incurred in connection with the ERP system being implemented throughout our Batavia, New York facility in order to enhance efficiency and productivity and are not expected to recur once the project is completed. Debt amendment costs consist of accelerated write-offs of unamortized deferred debt issuance costs and discounts, prepayment penalties and attorney fees in connection with the amendment of our credit facility in October 2023.

View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20250206161483/en/

CONTACT: Christopher J. Thome

Vice President - Finance and CFO

Phone: (585) 343-2216

Tom Cook

Investor Relations

(203) 682-8250

Tom.Cook@icrinc.com

**(11:30 GMT)** \*Graham Corp 3Q Adj EPS 18C >GHM

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250207004574:0/)
