---
title: "News Highlights: Top Global Markets News of the Day - Thursday at 11 PM ET"
date: "2025-02-07 12:00:00"
summary: "Dow Slips; Investors Dig Into Results DelugeAnother batch of strong corporate earnings reports pushed the S&amp;P 500 and Nasdaq stock indexes toward record highs while plans to break up one of America's last big industrial conglomerates pulled down the Dow.Fed might need to hold rates steady 'for quite some time,'..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

**Dow Slips; Investors Dig Into Results Deluge**

Another batch of strong corporate earnings reports pushed the S&P 500 and Nasdaq stock indexes toward record highs while plans to break up one of America's last big industrial conglomerates pulled down the Dow.

**Fed might need to hold rates steady 'for quite some time,' Logan says**

Even inflation falling close to 2% in the coming months might not necessarily allow the Fed to cut rates soon, Logan said.

**Fed Chair Powell to testify to Congress next week, his first appearance since July**

Powell is set to testify before the Senate Banking Committee on Tuesday at 10 a.m. Eastern and to the House Financial Services panel on the following day.

**Is the U.S. jobs market much weaker than it looks? We're about to find out.**

Was the U.S. jobs market much weaker than it appeared toward the end of 2024? Probably not, but Wall Street is anxious to find out.

**Year-End Gains in Productivity Weaken. What It Means for Growth.**

Labor productivity grew at a rate of 1.2% in the fourth quarter of 2024. Growth was 2.3% in the third quarter, revised data showed.

**Prolonged Trade Uncertainty to Weigh on Economic Growth, Bank of Canada's Macklem Says**

The longer uncertainty over tariffs persists, the more it will damp economic activity, the central bank governor said.

**Trump's focus on 10-year Treasury yield to cut borrowing costs raises curiosity - and problems**

Federal Reserve Chair Jerome Powell may be breathing easier now that the Trump administration intends to focus on the 10-year Treasury yield, instead of rate cuts, to lower borrowing costs. But for some market participants, the news was raising problematic questions.

**China's Firms Are Bleeding Cash-and Vulnerable to Trump's Trade War**

Companies across the country are bleeding cash as they struggle with overcapacity and weak spending in a slumping economy, leaving them vulnerable to tariffs.

**Jobless claims rise slightly, but no sign of trouble brewing in labor market**

The number of people who applied for unemployment benefits in early February rose slightly but remained at very low levels in a sign the labor market is still quite healthy.

**Bank of England Cuts Rates, Warns of Tariff Impact**

The central bank responded to a troubling mix of stuttering economic growth, stubborn inflation and President Trump's tariff threats.

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250206016950:0/)
