---
title: "Porsche Stock Hits the Skids — WSJ"
date: "2025-02-07 19:44:00"
summary: "By Stephen WilmotPorsche is veering off the route set in its 2022 initial public offering.The sportscar maker's stock fell roughly 5% Friday after warning late Thursday that its results for 2025 would be hit by additional spending, including on new internal-combustion-engine vehicles and plug-in hybrids.Porsche said it now expects an..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Stephen Wilmot

Porsche is veering off the route set in its 2022 initial public offering.

The sportscar maker's stock fell roughly 5% Friday after warning late Thursday that its results for 2025 would be hit by additional spending, including on new internal-combustion-engine vehicles and plug-in hybrids.

Porsche said it now expects an operating margin of between 10% and 12% this year, below the roughly 15% currently penciled in by analysts. That's also a far cry from the company's "long-term ambition" of 20% stated ahead of its IPO.

The company's shares are now trading 31% below their IPO price.

Porsche's IPO-era product roadmap placed a heavy emphasis on electric vehicles, which it expected to make up four-fifths of all sales in 2030. Last July it said the transition was taking longer than expected.

China has been another weak spot. Porsche deliveries in the once-lucrative export market fell 28% last year as it tried to preserve its margins in a price war.

Porsche also now faces uncertainty in North America, its largest market. The company could be hit hard if President Trump follows through on threats to introduce tariffs on imports from the European Union, where Porsche makes almost all its vehicles..

This item is part of a Wall Street Journal live coverage event. The full stream can be found by searching P/WSJL (WSJ Live Coverage).

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250207004749:0/)
