---
title: "Bain Capital to Buy Mitsubishi Chemical's Pharma Business for More Than $3 Billion"
date: "2025-02-07 15:22:00"
summary: "(07:02 GMT) *Mitsubishi Chemical: to Sell Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma to Bain Capital for about Y510B(07:19 GMT) *Mitsubishi Chemical: to Book About Y95.0B of Gains Related to Pharma Unit Sale in 2Q of Next FY(07:22 GMT) Bain Capital to Buy Mitsubishi Chemical's Pharma Business for More Than $3 BillionBy Kosaku NariokaMitsubishi..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

**(07:02 GMT)** \*Mitsubishi Chemical: to Sell Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma to Bain Capital for about Y510B  
**(07:19 GMT)** \*Mitsubishi Chemical: to Book About Y95.0B of Gains Related to Pharma Unit Sale in 2Q of Next FY  
**(07:22 GMT)** Bain Capital to Buy Mitsubishi Chemical's Pharma Business for More Than $3 Billion

By Kosaku Narioka

Mitsubishi Chemical Group has agreed to sell its pharmaceutical business to Bain Capital for more than $3 billion, in a bid to focus on its key chemical businesses.

The Japanese chemical company said Friday that it would sell unit Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma to the U.S. investment company for about 510 billion yen, equivalent to $3.37 billion.

Mitsubishi Chemical has identified several focus areas, such as products to support vehicle electrification, chip-making and food production, as it shed a number of businesses over the past couple of years. The company said in November that it would look for the best partners for its pharmaceutical business in the long run.

Mitsubishi Chemical's pharmaceutical business accounted for about 10% of the company's revenue in the year ended March 2024. Its best-selling drugs include Radicava for amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, which competes with Biogen's Qalsody.

Foreign investment firms like Bain Capital have been riding a growing wave of Japanese mergers and acquisitions in recent years as big companies spin off noncore businesses or company managements opt to leave the public market.

Chip maker Kioxia Holdings, which was bought for around $18 billion in 2018 by a group led by Bain Capital, made its trading debut in December following an $800 million initial public offering.

Write to Kosaku Narioka at kosaku.narioka@wsj.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250207002365:0/)
