---
title: "Global Forex and Fixed Income Roundup: Market Talk"
date: "2025-02-07 15:59:00"
summary: "The latest Market Talks covering FX and Fixed Income. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.0759 GMT - The dollar trades steady in early European trade but could fall slightly if U.S. January nonfarm payrolls data at 1330 GMT are weaker, Swissquote Bank analyst Ipek Ozkardeskaya says in..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The latest Market Talks covering FX and Fixed Income. Published exclusively on Dow Jones Newswires throughout the day.

0759 GMT - The dollar trades steady in early European trade but could fall slightly if U.S. January nonfarm payrolls data at 1330 GMT are weaker, Swissquote Bank analyst Ipek Ozkardeskaya says in a note. The data could show growth in jobs and wages slowed while the unemployment rate held steady, she says. Annual revisions could also be adjusted downwards. In that case, "the week will end with the narrative that the U.S. jobs market is healthily slowing." That would allow the Federal Reserve to continue cutting interest rates slowly. Any dollar depreciation will remain limited against European currencies due to expectations for more rate cuts compared with the U.S. and safe-haven demand. The DXY dollar index is steady at 107.728. (renae.dyer@wsj.com)

0758 GMT - Eurozone government bond yields are little changed as markets await the European Central Bank's new estimate of neutral rate for potential clues on how far interest rates could fall. The neutral rate is a theoretical interest rate level which neither tightens nor stimulates the economy. "The announcement comes as the discussion on where the ECB rate should land intensifies after five cuts in the deposit rate to 2.75%," SEB Research's Erik Meyersson says in a note. With inflation expected at 2% this year, the ECB's executive board agrees that more cuts are likely, but exactly how many is difficult to say, the chief strategist says. The 10-year Bund yield rises 1 basis point to 2.376%, according to Tradeweb. (emese.bartha@wsj.com)

0737 GMT - Chinese banks likely issued CNY4.3 trillion in new yuan loans in January, up from CNY990 billion in December as they front-loaded lending quotas at the start of the year, according to a poll of economists by WSJ. That amount would be below the CNY4.92 trillion issued in January last year, signaling weakness in credit demand. The upcoming loan data might have been affected by the timing of the Lunar New Year holiday. Businesses suspended operations early this year as workers returned home. Meanwhile, M2--the broadest measure of money supply--likely rose 7.4% on year in January, up slightly from December's 7.3%. The People's Bank of China will likely release the data next week. (singaporeeditors@dowjones.com)

0736 GMT - U.S. tariffs are likely to have a wide-ranging impact on multiple assets, according to Benoit Anne, managing director at MFS Investment Management, in a commentary. Global equities have not yet factored in significant policy risks, anticipating negative implications from tariffs on stock prices, Anne notes. In terms of fixed income, the latest development is likely to further reduce the U.S. Federal Reserve's ability to ease policy going forward, given the potential one-off adjustment effect on U.S. domestic prices, Anne adds. Furthermore, Canadian energy producers and Midwest refiners are likely to face challenges due to tariffs, Anne says. Legal uncertainties, potential extensions to other regions, and government negotiations are also closely watched, Anne notes. (tracy.qu@wsj.com)

0732 GMT - A rise in German exports at the end of last year suggests a rush to trade ahead of looming tariffs and doesn't promise a rebound in the country's manufacturing, Carsten Brzeski at Dutch bank ING tells investors in a note. Exports from Europe's largest economy unexpectedly rose in December, figures show Friday. That is likely to be a result of front-loading ahead of the tariffs that U.S. President Trump has threatened to impose on goods imported from the EU, Brzeski says. Combined with separate data showing a slump in production, the structural weakness in the German economy, he says. "Industry has been and will remain a drag on German growth," Brzeski warns. (joshua.kirby@wsj.com; @joshualeokirby)

0720 GMT - The FTSE 100 is expected to open 22 points, or 0.3%, lower according to IG. The index closed 103 points, or 1.2%, higher to 8727 points Thursday. The Bank of England cut interest rates by 25 basis points to 4.5% Thursday, as expected. However, two members surprised the market by voting for a 50bp cut, weakening sterling and boosting the FTSE 100. Turning to Friday's agenda, the focus is on the U.S. nonfarm payrolls report at 1330 GMT as it could provide clues about the Federal Reserve's rate path. "We think that the employment picture will start to weaken from the second quarter, but for now will remain strong," Jefferies economist Mohit Kumar says in a note. (renae.dyer@wsj.com)

0710 GMT - China's consumer price index likely rose 0.4% on year in January, picking up from December's 0.1% increase on higher food demand around the Lunar New Year holiday, according to a poll of 11 economists by The Wall Street Journal. Food prices were likely driven by increased demand before and during the holiday, while some service prices also likely rose, economists say. The decline in China's factory-gate prices likely eased to 2.2% on year in January, improving from December's 2.3% drop, according to the poll. China's National Bureau of Statistics is due to release the data on Sunday.(singaporeeditors@dowjones.com)

0658 GMT - It is tough to imagine the U.S. jobs report being a game-changer from a Federal Reserve policy perspective, says Michael Brown of Pepperstone in a note. Fed Chair Jerome Powell has noted that policymakers need to see either 'real' inflation progress or 'some' labor market weakness in order to unlock another rate cut, the senior research strategist says. For markets, the jobs report is likely to be a case of 'good news is good news,' or vice versa, with a focus on the underlying economic story rather than any potential policy implications, Brown says. Economists' consensus forecast for January job additions is 169,000, according to The Wall Street Journal's poll. (emese.bartha@wsj.com)

0648 GMT - Japanese stocks ended lower as concerns about higher borrowing costs persisted. Auto and real-estate stocks led the declines. Toyota Motor dropped 2.7% and Sumitomo Realty & Development shed 2.8%. The Nikkei Stock Average fell 0.7% to 38787.02. The 10-year Japanese government bond yield rose 4 basis points to 1.300%, the highest level since April 2011. Investors are paying attention to Prime Minister Shigeru Ishiba's U.S. visit. USD/JPY is at 151.71, compared with 151.45 as of Thursday 5 p.m. Eastern time. (kosaku.narioka@wsj.com; @kosakunarioka)

0647 GMT - If U.S. nonfarm payrolls data at 1330 GMT prompts a selloff in Treasurys, investors could consider this as a buying opportunity, Societe Generale Research's rates strategists say in a note. "We are neutral on duration, but view a selloff post NFP as a buying opportunity," they say. The 10-year U.S. Treasury yield broke below the tight 4.50%-4.65% range in response to weaker data and unchanged forward guidance in the Treasury's refunding announcement, they note. Nevertheless, the risks to yields are skewed to the downside in case of a below-consensus print, they say. Economists in The Wall Street Journal's poll forecast 169,000 jobs were added in January versus 256,000 in December. The 10-year U.S. Treasury yield rises 1 basis point to 4.446%, according to Tradeweb. (emese.bartha@wsj.com)

0643 GMT - The Indian central bank's rate cut could deliver a boost to homebuying sentiment, says Kaushal Agarwal, co-founder and director at The Guardians Real Estate Advisory. The move is expected to lower borrowing costs, potentially making home loans more affordable, Agarwal says in a note. For developers, the cut could ease financial strain and encourage new projects, he adds. The RBI's inflation and GDP growth projections indicate a stable economic outlook, which may contribute to a more balanced environment for the real-estate sector, supporting demand in both residential and commercial segments, he says.(fabiana.negrinochoa@wsj.com)

0638 GMT - The Bank of Japan is behind the curve and needs to get to neutral, between 1% and 1.5%, over the coming year, RBC BlueBay Asset Management's Kaspar Hense says in a note. "That should drag the entire curve higher, but in particular the 10-year part of the curve, which is currently artificially dragged down by Rinban purchases," the senior portfolio manager says. However, those purchases of JGBs will be reduced from July onward, he says. "That being said, we do think the 30-year part of the curve is approaching fairer value at around 2.5%." The 10-year JGB yield rises 4 basis points to 1.304%, while the 30-year is up 1 basis point at 2.289%, according to Tradeweb. (emese.bartha@wsj.com)

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250207003081:0/)
