---
title: "News Highlights: Top Energy News of the Day - Friday at 4 AM ET"
date: "2025-02-07 17:15:00"
summary: "Utility Probes Connection Between Deadly Eaton Fire, Inactive Power LineSouthern California Edison is examining the role of an idle transmission line near the area where the fire started.Oil ends at lowest price of the year on rising U.S. supplies, tariff disputesU.S. and global oil futures declined on Thursday as a..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

**Utility Probes Connection Between Deadly Eaton Fire, Inactive Power Line**

Southern California Edison is examining the role of an idle transmission line near the area where the fire started.

**Oil ends at lowest price of the year on rising U.S. supplies, tariff disputes**

U.S. and global oil futures declined on Thursday as a hefty rise in last week's U.S. supplies and uncertainty surrounding tariff disputes helped to weaken the outlook for crude demand, prompting prices to settle at their lowest levels of the year.

**U.S. Natural Gas Futures Get Another Weather Boost**

U.S. Natural gas futures settled higher with weather forecasts for later this month showing lower temperatures likely to drive up demand.

**Conoco Quarterly Net Income Fell, Expects 2025 Production Growth**

Conoco Phillips said fourth-quarter net income declined alongside energy prices but the oil giant forecast production growth in 2025.

**Power Stocks Had Been on an AI Tear. Then Came DeepSeek.**

The efficiency gains of DeepSeek's AI models startled the power industry, which is set to invest billions in electricity projects.

**Orsted Expects Earnings to Rise This Year**

The renewable-energy company guided for slightly higher earnings this year as some wind and solar farms ramp up, while it works to shore up its balance sheet by cutting its investment program to 2030 by 25%.

**Energy & Utilities Roundup: Market Talk**

Find insight on oil prices, Suncor Energy, Petronas, Orsted, and more in the latest Market Talks covering Energy and Utilities.

**U.S. Crude Oil Stockpiles Rise More Than Expected**

U.S. crude oil inventories increased more than expected as production picked up, while the build in gasoline stocks extended to almost three months.

**Orsted Cuts 2030 Investment Program by 25%**

The Danish group energy group said that 2024 Ebitda was in line with expectations, but acknowledged it experienced challenges, especially related to its U.S. offshore wind business.

**Venezuela's Citgo Is Proving a Tough Sell for Bidders**

The coming auction for Venezuela's Citgo Petroleum could leave its buyer on the hook to other creditors of the South American country, a stumbling block for the court-ordered sale.

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250207003599:0-news-highlights-top-energy-news-of-the-day-friday-at-4-am-et/)
