---
title: "Affirm Flies Past Estimates. The Stock Is Climbing. — Barrons.com"
date: "2025-02-07 17:32:00"
summary: "By Emily DattiloShares of Affirm were rising sharply in premarket trading Friday after the \"buy now, pay later\" company easily beat quarterly estimates.Affirm stock gained 17% to $72.13 early Friday.For its second fiscal quarter, the company reported earnings of 23 cents a share, beating Wall Street's call for a loss..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Emily Dattilo

Shares of Affirm were rising sharply in premarket trading Friday after the "buy now, pay later" company easily beat quarterly estimates.

Affirm stock gained 17% to $72.13 early Friday.

For its second fiscal quarter, the company reported earnings of 23 cents a share, beating Wall Street's call for a loss of 16 cents, according to FactSet. Revenue of $866 million was above the consensus estimate for $807 million. In the quarter a year ago, Affirm reported a loss of 54 cents per share and revenue of $591 million.

Gross merchandise volume — which measures transactions on Affirm's platform — was $10.1 billion, higher than analysts' forecast of $9.64 billion. A year ago, gross merchandise volume was $7.5 billion.

"We are five months away from our chosen target date to turn Affirm Operating Income positive, but it should be apparent to a casual observer that we are nearly there today — mark it zero," CEO Max Levchin said in a letter to shareholders.

The company reported an operating loss of $4.3 million compared with a $172 million loss in the year-ago quarter.

Affirm offered guidance for its fiscal third and fourth quarters, as well as its fiscal year. For fiscal 2025, it now anticipates gross merchandise volume between $34.74 billion and $35.34 billion, while analysts had penciled in $34.95 billion.

Write to Emily Dattilo at emily.dattilo@dowjones.com

This content was created by Barron's, which is operated by Dow Jones & Co. Barron's is published independently from Dow Jones Newswires and The Wall Street Journal.

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250206010372:0/)
