---
title: "Food Prices Fell in January on Cheaper Sugar, Vegetable Oils, UN Says"
date: "2025-02-07 17:11:00"
summary: "By Joe HoppeFood prices slipped in January, driven by significantly cheaper sugar and vegetable oils, data from the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations showed on Friday.The FAO's food price index--which tracks global prices for a basket of staple foods--averaged 124.9 points in January, a 1.6% fall from..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

By Joe Hoppe

Food prices slipped in January, driven by significantly cheaper sugar and vegetable oils, data from the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations showed on Friday.

The FAO's food price index--which tracks global prices for a basket of staple foods--averaged 124.9 points in January, a 1.6% fall from December's level. It remains up 6.2% on year, but 22% below its all-time high in March 2022, shortly after the Russian invasion of Ukraine began.

Vegetable-oil prices fell 5.6% from the previous month, but remain up 24.9% on-year. January's fall mainly reflects lower world prices of palm and rapeseed oils, while sunflower and soy oils remained flat on month.

Sugar prices were down 6.8% on month and 18.5% on-year, largely on better global supply prospects given generally favorable weather in Brazil and the Indian government's decision to restart sugar exports, the FAO said.

Meat prices also fell 1.7% on month, on lower international ovine, pig and poultry prices--outweighing an increase in bovine meat prices.

Cereal prices rose 0.3% on month, according to the U.N. body, and were down 6.9% on year. Wheat export prices dropped slightly, while maize prices increased, partially reflecting lower production and stock expectations for the U.S. Rice fell 4.7% amid solid supply.

Dairy prices also rose 2.4%, and are up 20.4% on year. This reflects a 7.6% monthly jump in international cheese prices, outweighing falls in butter and milk powder prices.

Write to Joe Hoppe at joseph.hoppe@wsj.com

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250207003586:0/)
