---
title: "News Highlights: Top Global Markets News of the Day - Friday at 9 AM ET"
date: "2025-02-07 22:15:00"
summary: "Employers Added 143,000 Jobs in January, and Unemployment Edged Down to 4%The gain in jobs was less than economists had expected, but the job counts for November and December were revised upward by a combined 100,000German Industrial Production Ends 2024 on Weak NoteOutput declined 2.4% on month in December, driven..."
categories:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "Dow Jones Newswires"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

**Employers Added 143,000 Jobs in January, and Unemployment Edged Down to 4%**

The gain in jobs was less than economists had expected, but the job counts for November and December were revised upward by a combined 100,000

**German Industrial Production Ends 2024 on Weak Note**

Output declined 2.4% on month in December, driven by a fall in auto production, as the industrial sector faces the threat of a further slowdown from U.S. tariffs.

**Food Prices Fell in January on Cheaper Sugar, Vegetable Oils, UN Says**

An index tracking global prices for a basket of staple foods dropped 1.6%, driven by significantly cheaper sugar and vegetable oils.

**ECB Updates Estimate of Neutral Rate as Policymakers Question Its Worth**

The neutral rate of interest that neither spurs nor slows growth in the eurozone is between 1.75% and 2.25%, according to the European Central Bank.

**The Drug Industry Is Having Its Own DeepSeek Moment**

It isn't just artificial intelligence. Chinese biotech companies are now developing drugs faster and cheaper than their U.S. counterparts.

**Fed might need to hold rates steady 'for quite some time,' Logan says**

Even inflation falling close to 2% in the coming months might not necessarily allow the Fed to cut rates soon, Logan said.

**Hong Kong to Challenge U.S. Tariffs on Imports in WTO Complaint**

The Hong Kong Special Administrative Region Government described the tariffs as "unreasonable measures" and "grossly inconsistent with the relevant WTO rules."

**DeepSeek Breakthrough Fuels Rally in Chinese Tech Stocks**

The Hang Seng Tech Index, which tracks the 30 largest technology companies listed in the city, rose as much as 2.9% on Friday, reflecting a rise of more than 20% from its January low.

**Europe Is Looking to Roll Back Climate Accounting Rules**

Changes would seek to ease companies' regulatory burden amid concerns over the continent's competitiveness.

**U.K. Shopper Traffic Rises on January's Bargain Hunt, BRC Says**

Retail footfall jumped 6.6% despite inclement weather, stimulated by promotional activity after a disappointing Christmas period.

[Dow Jones Newswires](https://www.tradingview.com/news/DJN_DN20250207006793:0-news-highlights-top-global-markets-news-of-the-day-friday-at-9-am-et/)
