---
title: "BlackRock now owns 5% of Strategy as the latter’s bitcoin exposure grows"
date: "2025-02-07 21:23:40"
summary: "Asset management giant BlackRock has increased its stake in Strategy (formerly MicroStrategy), the largest corporate holder of bitcoin, from 4.09% to 5%, according to its Schedule 13G filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.The filing, dated Feb. 6, 2025, shows that BlackRock owns a total of 11.26 million common..."
categories:
  - "The Block"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "The Block"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Asset management giant BlackRock has increased its stake in Strategy (formerly MicroStrategy), the largest corporate holder of bitcoin, from 4.09% to 5%, according to its Schedule 13G filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.

The filing, dated Feb. 6, 2025, shows that BlackRock owns a total of 11.26 million common shares of Strategy as of Dec. 31, 2024 — up from 9.48 million shares as of Sept. 30, 2024 — an increase of 1.78 million shares over the quarter.

While the exact purchase price of these additional shares is unclear, they are currently valued at around $584 million based on Strategy's current share price of around $325. At this price, BlackRock's entire 11.26 million-share stake is worth around $3.67 billion.

BlackRock's increased stake comes amid Strategy's continued bitcoin accumulation. Strategy holds 471,107 bitcoins, currently worth over $46 billion, according to The Block's Data Dashboard. Earlier this week, the company reported a net loss of $670.8 million.

The 5% stake threshold required BlackRock to file a Schedule 13G with the SEC. This form is used by institutional investors who acquire 5% or more of a company's shares but do not intend to influence control or management. It's a more straightforward filing for passive investors, while Schedule 13D is for those looking to influence a company's decisions.

Disclaimer: The Block is an independent media outlet that delivers news, research, and data. As of November 2023, Foresight Ventures is a majority investor of The Block. Foresight Ventures invests in other companies in the crypto space. Crypto exchange Bitget is an anchor LP for Foresight Ventures. The Block continues to operate independently to deliver objective, impactful, and timely information about the crypto industry. Here are our current financial disclosures.

© 2024 The Block. All Rights Reserved. This article is provided for informational purposes only. It is not offered or intended to be used as legal, tax, investment, financial, or other advice.

[The Block](https://www.tradingview.com/news/the_block:8d6286441094b:0-blackrock-now-owns-5-of-strategy-as-the-latter-s-bitcoin-exposure-grows/)
