---
title: "Friday's Economic Calendar"
date: "2025-02-07 08:00:00"
summary: "8:30 AM Employment Situation Employment situation is a set of monthly labor market indicators based on two separate reports: the establishment survey which tracks 650,000 worksites and offers the nonfarm payroll and average hourly earnings headlines and the household survey which interviews 60,000 households and generates the unemployment rate. Forecasters..."
categories:
  - "seekalpha"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "seekalpha"
menu: ""
thumbnail: "https://static.seekingalpha.com/cdn/s3/uploads/getty_images/133962701/image_133962701.jpg"
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

**8:30 AM Employment Situation**

Employment situation is a set of monthly labor market indicators based on two separate reports: the establishment survey which tracks 650,000 worksites and offers the nonfarm payroll and average hourly earnings headlines and the household survey which interviews 60,000 households and generates the unemployment rate.

Forecasters expect a decent rise of 168,000 even as winter weather may depress job growth in the January report. Forecasts call for no change in the jobless rate at 4.1 percent.

**9:25 AM Fed's Bowman Speech**

Federal Reserve Board Governor Michelle Bowman will give a brief economic update and bank regulation remarks before the 2025 Wisconsin Bankers Association Bank Executives Conference.

**10:00 AM Consumer Sentiment** 

The University of Michigan's Consumer Survey Center questions households each month on their assessment of current conditions and expectations of future conditions.

The consensus looks for an uptick to 72.0 in February from 71.1 in January.

**10:00 AM Wholesale Inventories** 

Wholesale trade measures the dollar value of sales made and inventories held by merchant wholesalers. It is a component of business sales and inventories.

Forecasters expect no revision in the minus 0.5 percent figure from the flash report.

**12:00 PM Fed's Kugler Speech**

Federal Reserve Board Governor Adriana Kugler will speak on"Entrepreneurship and Aggregate Productivity" before the 2025 Miami Economic Forum.

**1:00 PM Baker Hughes Rig Count**

The Baker Hughes North American rig count tracks weekly changes in the number of active operating oil & gas rigs.

**3:00 PM Consumer Credit** 

The dollar value of consumer installment credit outstanding. Changes in consumer credit indicate the state of consumer finances and portend future spending patterns.

A return to growth is the call, with forecasts centering on an increase of $16.0 billion in December after a surprise decline of $7.5 billion in November.

[seekalpha](https://seekingalpha.com/news/4404591-fridays-economic-calendar)
