---
title: "SolarWinds spikes as equity firm moves to acquire and delist"
date: "2025-02-07 17:12:58"
summary: "SolarWinds (NYSE:SWI), an Austin, Texas-based IT firm, has entered into a definitive agreement to be acquired by Turn/River Capital, a private equity firm based in San Francisco. Shares of the IT firm spiked more than 20% during pre-market action on Friday. Upon completion of the sale, which is expected to..."
categories:
  - "seekalpha"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "seekalpha"
menu: ""
thumbnail: "https://static.seekingalpha.com/cdn/s3/uploads/getty_images/1199334120/image_1199334120.jpg"
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

SolarWinds (NYSE:[SWI](https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/SWI "SolarWinds Corporation")), an Austin, Texas-based IT firm, has entered into a definitive agreement to be acquired by Turn/River Capital, a private equity firm based in San Francisco.

Shares of the IT firm spiked more than 20% during pre-market action on Friday.

Upon completion of the sale, which is expected to close during the second quarter of 2025, SolarWinds will be removed from the New York Stock Exchange after nearly seven years as a publicly traded entity.

Turn/River has agreed to an all-cash transaction of $4.4B, which equates to $18.50 per share. The per-share price represents a premium of approximately 35% to the volume-weighted average closing price of SolarWinds stock for the 90 trading days ended on February 6.

"This successful transaction and exciting partnership are testaments to our employees' outstanding work of building exceptional solutions and delivering great customer success," said SolarWinds CEO Sudhakar Ramakrishna. "We are confident that Turn/River’s expertise and growth orientation will help us ensure SolarWinds continues to drive innovation and deliver even greater value for customers and stakeholders."

"By pairing our team of software operators and investors with their relentless focus on customer success, together we aim to accelerate growth and further innovation," said Dominic Ang, founder and managing partner of Turn/River.

Due to the planned acquisition, SolarWinds has canceled its fourth quarter earnings call that was slated for February 11. It now plans to report its fourth quarter and full year 2024 financial results by February 14.

[seekalpha](https://seekingalpha.com/news/4405140-solarwinds-spikes-as-equity-firm-moves-to-acquire-and-delist)
