---
title: "Biggest stock movers Friday: AMZN, PINS, and more"
date: "2025-02-07 13:00:21"
summary: "Stock futures were cautious on Friday morning following a busy corporate earnings week, with investors awaiting the upcoming jobs report. Here are some of Friday's biggest stock movers: Biggest stock gainers Pinterest (NYSE:PINS) surged over 22% after reporting mixed Q4 results, with revenue rising 18% Y/Y to $1.154B—its first billion-dollar..."
categories:
  - "seekalpha"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "seekalpha"
menu: ""
thumbnail: "https://static.seekingalpha.com/cdn/s3/uploads/getty_images/682530865/image_682530865.jpg"
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Stock futures were cautious on Friday morning following a busy corporate earnings week, with investors awaiting the upcoming jobs report.

Here are some of Friday's biggest stock movers:

Biggest stock gainers
---------------------

* Pinterest (NYSE:[PINS](https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/PINS "Pinterest, Inc.")) surged over 22% after reporting mixed Q4 results, with revenue rising 18% Y/Y to $1.154B—its first billion-dollar quarter—topping estimates. Net income soared over 800% to $1.84B, driven by a $1.57B tax benefit, while adjusted net income grew 4% to $385.6M. Monthly active users hit a record 553M, up 11% Y/Y. The company issued strong Q1 guidance, expecting revenue of $837M-$852M (13%-15% Y/Y growth) vs. consensus of $834.9M and adjusted EBITDA of $155M-$170M, with a 2-point FX headwind impacting constant currency growth of 15%-17%.
* Cloudflare (NYSE:[NET](https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/NET "Cloudflare, Inc.")) shares jumped 10% after beating Q4 estimates, despite issuing a weaker-than-expected outlook. For Q1, the company forecasts adjusted EPS of $0.16 (vs. $0.18 consensus) and revenue of $468M-$469M (vs. $475.2M expected), reflecting 24% Y/Y growth. Full-year revenue guidance of $2.09B aligns with estimates, while projected non-GAAP EPS of $0.79-$0.80 falls short of the $0.85 consensus. CEO Matthew Prince highlighted record growth in large customers, with those spending over $1M annually rising to 173, including 55 new additions in 2024—more than half secured in Q4.

Biggest stock losers
--------------------

* Shares of e-commerce giant Amazon (NASDAQ:[AMZN](https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/AMZN "Amazon.com, Inc.")) dropped over 3% despite surpassing Q4 expectations, as weak Q1 guidance and currency headwinds weighed on sentiment. The company expects Q1 net sales of $151B-$155.5B, reflecting 5%-9% growth but falling short of the $158B consensus. Operating income is projected at $14B-$18B, with the midpoint just $1B higher than last year. Amazon also warned of an “unusually large” $2.1B negative impact from foreign exchange, reducing growth by 150 basis points.
* Despite exceeding FQ2 estimates, shares of BILL Holdings (NYSE:[BILL](https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/BILL "BILL Holdings, Inc.")) plummeted 28% after issuing weaker-than-expected revenue guidance for Q3 and FY2025. The company forecasts Q3 revenue of $352.5M-$357.5M, missing the $360.4M consensus and signaling a slowdown in growth, while full-year revenue guidance is $1.454B-$1.469B, with the midpoint below the consensus of $1.469B. However, adjusted EPS for FQ3 is anticipated to fall between $0.35 and $0.38, above the $0.34 consensus, and for FY2025 in the range of $1.87 to $1.97, significantly surpassing the consensus of $1.78.
* Shares of e.l.f. Beauty (NYSE:[ELF](https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/ELF "e.l.f. Beauty, Inc.")) tumbled 27% after missing profit estimates and issuing weaker-than-expected full-year revenue and EPS guidance. CFO Mandy Fields cited soft January trends as the reason for a more cautious outlook, with FY2025 net sales now expected to grow 27%-28% Y/Y, down from the prior 28%-30% forecast. The company also lowered Q4 guidance for adjusted EBITDA, net income, and EPS due to the slow start to the year. Despite the setback, management remains optimistic about long-term growth opportunities in digital, color cosmetics, skincare, and international markets.

[seekalpha](https://seekingalpha.com/news/4405007-biggest-stock-movers-friday-amzn-pins-and-more)
