---
title: "Cloudflare rises after 'impressive' Q4 as analysts keep bullish view"
date: "2025-02-07 17:10:20"
summary: "Cloudflare's (NYSE:NET) stock soared about 10% premarket on Friday after fourth quarter results beat estimates, which drew praise from analysts. Needham kept its Buy rating on the cloud-based security solutions provider and raised the price target to $185 from $160. Analysts led by Mike Cikos said \"Cloudflare reported an impressive..."
categories:
  - "seekalpha"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "seekalpha"
menu: ""
thumbnail: "https://static.seekingalpha.com/cdn/s3/uploads/getty_images/1186369885/image_1186369885.jpg"
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Cloudflare's (NYSE:[NET](https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/NET "Cloudflare, Inc.")) stock soared about 10% premarket on Friday after fourth quarter results beat estimates, which drew praise from analysts.

Needham kept its Buy rating on the cloud-based security solutions provider and raised the price target to $185 from $160.

Analysts led by Mike Cikos said "Cloudflare reported an impressive [quarter](https://seekingalpha.com/news/4404686-cloudflare-climbs-after-q4-results-top-estimates-on-large-client-growth "quarter") where the volume and caliber of customers was striking" — presenting investors with additional data that the go-to-market turnaround is taking hold. The company added a record number of Paying Customers, where year-over-year growth accelerated for the fourth consecutive quarter, and greater than 50% of Cloudflare's $1M-plus New Logos in 2024 were added during the December quarter, according to the analysts.

The analysts said that sales representative productivity increased by a double-digit percentage for the fifth consecutive quarter, and management noted Ramped Rep Capacity is expected to inflect meaningfully higher in the second quarter of 2025. In addition, Pool of Funds [contracts](https://seekingalpha.com/article/4755873-cloudflare-inc-net-q4-2024-earnings-call-transcript "contracts") should drive more significant revenue in the second half of 2025, leading to the stronger seasonal weighting in the back half of the year, the analysts noted.

Morgan Stanley maintained its Overweight rating and increased the price target on Cloudflare's stock to $154 from $140.

Analyst Hamza Fodderwala and his team said Cloudflare's delivered a "strong" fourth quarter result and 2025 outlook that clearly suggests accelerating topline growth through the year onimproving sales productivity and growing Edge AI tailwinds. The analysts see potential for $200 bull case if the topline reaccelerates to over 30% by the year-end.

Meanwhile, JMP reiterated its Market Outperform rating and raised the price target to$180 from $135 on Cloudflare after the company reported "solid" fourth quarter results.

Analysts led by Trevor Walsh said they have always viewed Cloudflare somewhat differently in the context of their wider cybersecurity coverage given its platform vision, distinctive architecture, andits developer-minded product capabilities (to name a few differentiatingattributes). The analysts added that supporting this view, Cloudflare's emerging story aroundAI opportunities are equally singular, and believe that it should offer longer-term tailwinds for the stock.

Jefferies maintained its Hold rating on Cloudflare but increased the price target to $170 from $145.

Analyst Joseph Gallo and his team said Cloudflare beat the revenue guidance midpoint by 1.9% which was the second highest beat in the past 10 quarters, while also guiding 2025 revenue in-line with consensus as it benefits from improved sales efficiency/capacity and AI tailwinds.

Related Stocks: Fortinet ([FTNT](https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/FTNT "Fortinet, Inc.")) +6%, CyberArk Software ([CYBR](https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/CYBR "CyberArk Software Ltd.")) +2%, while CrowdStrike ([CRWD](https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/CRWD "CrowdStrike Holdings, Inc.")) and Check Point Software Technologies ([CHKP](https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/CHKP "Check Point Software Technologies Ltd.")) +1%, each.

[seekalpha](https://seekingalpha.com/news/4405118-cloudflare-rises-after-impressive-q4-as-analysts-keep-bullish-view)
