---
title: "Fortinet rises after 'solid' Q4, improving refresh cycle"
date: "2025-02-07 16:23:31"
summary: "Shares of Fortinet (NASDAQ:FTNT) rose about 5% premarket on Friday after fourth quarter results beat estimates, which largely drew positive comments from analysts. In addition, CFO Keith Jensen announced his retirement after about 11 years at Fortinet. Christiane Ohlgart will take up the role of CFO by mid-May and Jensen..."
categories:
  - "seekalpha"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "seekalpha"
menu: ""
thumbnail: "https://static.seekingalpha.com/cdn/s3/uploads/getty_images/1670649574/image_1670649574.jpg"
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Shares of Fortinet (NASDAQ:[FTNT](https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/FTNT "Fortinet, Inc.")) rose about 5% premarket on Friday after fourth quarter results beat estimates, which largely drew positive comments from analysts.

In addition, CFO Keith Jensen announced his retirement after about 11 years at Fortinet. Christiane Ohlgart will take up the role of CFO by mid-May and Jensen will remain through June to assist with the transition, Jensen said on the company's earnings' call.

Evercore maintained its In-Line rating on the cybersecurity solutions provider but raised the price target on the shares to $105 from $90.

Analysts led by Peter Levine said Fortinet delivered "solid" fourth quarter results, exceeding top-and bottom-line expectations. However, the mixed outlook and a billings guide missmade the stock's positive movement unexpected.

The analysts noted that the upbeat reaction was likely driven by commentary on the strength of the upgrade cycle, which aligns with insights from Evercore's fourth quarter partner checks. Fortinet is experiencing a faster upgrade cycle than what they communicated last quarter, with large enterprises preparing for a firewall refresh.

The expects company expects momentum to build as they move into the second half of 2025 2H25. The expectation is that 2026/2027 cohorts will start their refresh cycle in 2025, ahead ofthe end-of-life cycle. Fortinet's management expects a significant portion of mid-rangefirewalls will fall under this cycle, according to the analysts.

The company is implementing several initiatives to capitalize on upgrade and expansion opportunities, including tailored sales plays for each customer segment and vital vertical, expanded account plans for larger enterprises, and collaboration with channel partners on small and midsize businesses, or SMB, opportunities, and the development of targeted bundle offerings, the analysts added.

Levine and his team said that Fortinet expects some weakness in the first quarter of 2025 due to potential disruptions in Latin America and Canada (15% of billings) related to tariffs, andtaking a more cautious view on the U.S. Fed market given partners/suppliers are sensing uncertainty that there might not be anyone left in the office to buy.

The full year 2025 and first quarter revenue outlook was in-line with expectations, with the company expecting 10% product rev growth for the year, the analysts noted.

Morgan Stanley kept its Overweight rating on Fortinet with a $113 price target.

Analyst Hamza Fodderwala and his team said Q4 was above consensus with product revenue meaningfully accelerating. Full year 2025 guidance beat expectations but the fourth quarter was helped by one to two points of inorganic contribution. With improving refresh, the analysts said they continue to see double-digit upside to forward free cash flow, or FCF, estimates but less multiple expansion from here.

Jefferies maintained its Hold rating on Fortinet but increased the price target to $115 from $105,

Analysts led by Joseph Gallo said Fortinet fourth quarter billings growth of 7% beat consensus of 5% while operating margin beat by 560 basis points. However, opening 2025 organic billings guidance of nearly 10% year-over-year at the midpoint was a bit surprising versus the 12%+ three-year Compound Annual Growth Rate, or CAGR, framework laid out a few months ago, although SMB and product refresh commentary was positive, the analysts added.

Meanwhile, Mizuho maintained its Underperform rating on Fortinet and raised the price target to $87 from $78.

The analysts noted that 2025 organic billings growth guidance was below consensus. The analysts added that they were confident that Fortinet is well positioned within network security. However, competition remains fierce in Secure access service edge, or SASE, and Security operations, SecOps, and the analysts remain cautious on if its new initiatives in these areas can truly move the needle on near-to-medium-term growth. "Finally, while more firewall refresh is likely to occur in 2025, we continue to lack confidence in that as a meaningful catalyst," said the analysts.

Related Stocks: Cloudflare ([NET](https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/NET "Cloudflare, Inc.")) +10%, CrowdStrike ([CRWD](https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/CRWD "CrowdStrike Holdings, Inc.")) +1%, CyberArk Software ([CYBR](https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/CYBR "CyberArk Software Ltd.")) +1%, Check Point Software Technologies ([CHKP](https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/CHKP "Check Point Software Technologies Ltd.")) largely flat.

[seekalpha](https://seekingalpha.com/news/4405062-fortinet-rises-after-solid-q4-improving-refresh-cycle)
