---
title: "Flowers Foods Non-GAAP EPS of $0.22 beats by $0.01, revenue of $1.11B misses by $20M"
date: "2025-02-07 15:03:43"
summary: "Flowers Foods press release (NYSE:FLO): Q4 Non-GAAP EPS of $0.22 beats by $0.01. Revenue of $1.11B (-1.8% Y/Y) misses by $20M. Net sales decreased 1.6% to $1.111 billion as positive pricing/mix was more than offset by volume declines. Net sales of approximately $5.403 billion to $5.487 billion vs $5.22B consensus,..."
categories:
  - "seekalpha"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "seekalpha"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

* Flowers Foods [press release](https://seekingalpha.com/pr/19995414-flowers-foods-inc-reports-fourth-quarter-and-full-year-2024-results) (NYSE:[FLO](https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/FLO "Flowers Foods, Inc.")): Q4 Non-GAAP EPS of $0.22  beats by $0.01.
* Revenue of $1.11B (-1.8% Y/Y)  misses by $20M.
* Net sales decreased 1.6% to $1.111 billion as positive pricing/mix was more than offset by volume declines.
* Net sales of approximately $5.403 billion to $5.487 billion vs $5.22B consensus, representing 5.9% to 7.5% growth compared to the prior year. Excluding the Simple Mills acquisition, we expect net sales of approximately $5.180 billion to $5.257 billion, representing 1.5% to 3.0% growth compared to the prior year. The partial-year benefit of the Simple Mills acquisition and the 53rd week are expected to contribute $223 million to $230 million and $70 million to $80 million, respectively.
* Adjusted EBITDA in the range of approximately $560 million to $591 million. Excluding the Simple Mills acquisition, we expect adjusted EBITDA(3) in the range of approximately $526 million to $554 million. The partial-year benefit of the Simple Mills acquisition and the 53rd week are expected to contribute $34 million to $37 million and $5 million to $7 million, respectively.
* Adjusted diluted EPS in the range of approximately $1.11 to $1.24. Excluding the Simple Mills acquisition, we expect adjusted diluted EPS of $1.18 to $1.28 vs $1.30 consensus. The partial-year contribution of the Simple Mills acquisition is expected to be ($0.07) to ($0.04), while the 53rd week is expected to contribute approximately $0.02.
* The company's outlook is based on the following assumptions:
  
  + Depreciation and amortization in the range of $175 million to $185 million.
  + Net interest expense of approximately $60 million to $65 million.
  + An effective tax rate of approximately 25%.
  + Weighted average diluted share count for the year of approximately 212.3 million shares.
  + Capital expenditures in the range of $140 million to $150 million, with $4 million to $6 million related to our enterprise resource planning system upgrade.

[seekalpha](https://seekingalpha.com/news/4405058-flowers-foods-non-gaap-eps-of-0_22-beats-by-0_01-revenue-of-1_11b-misses-by-20m)
