---
title: "Wynn Resorts secures financing for resort project in the United Arab Emirates"
date: "2025-02-07 14:50:47"
summary: "Wynn Resorts, Limited (NASDAQ:WYNN) announced that it has landed financing for its facility in the United Arab Emirates. Notably, the landmark transaction represents the largest hospitality financing transaction in the history of the United Arab Emirates. Wynn Al Marjan Island has obtained a $2.4 billion construction facility with a global..."
categories:
  - "seekalpha"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "seekalpha"
menu: ""
thumbnail: "https://static.seekingalpha.com/cdn/s3/uploads/getty_images/104670191/image_104670191.jpg"
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Wynn Resorts, Limited (NASDAQ:[WYNN](https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/WYNN "Wynn Resorts, Limited")) announced that it has landed financing for its facility in the United Arab Emirates. Notably, the landmark transaction represents the largest hospitality financing transaction in the history of the United Arab Emirates.

Wynn Al Marjan Island has obtained a $2.4 billion construction facility with a global syndicate of lenders to finance the development of the project, which will be the first integrated resort in the United Arab Emirates. Wynn Al Marjan Island is located 50 minutes from Dubai International Airport in the emirate of Ras Al Khaimah.

The secured term loan facility, made available to the Wynn Al Marjan Island FZ-LLC subsidiary is denominated in a combination of AED and USD currencies, reflecting the bulk of the expected development expenditures to be incurred in AED. The term of the loan is seven years at a competitive market interest rate and is structured as a delayed draw facility which provides significant financial flexibility to the joint venture partners.

Project construction was noted to be proceeding well, with 64% of the structural concrete completed up to the 34th floor of the main resort tower and elevator cores extending to the 36th floor. The construction team is completing one floor per week, working toward a topping off in December of this year.

The resort will offer 1,542 rooms and well-appointed suites. To date, 1,226 guest rooms in the tower structure have been completed, or 80% of the total. The exterior façade window glazing is progressing with 2,840 of 13,734 panels completed, which is more than 20% of the total. In the low-rise portion of the building, the concrete and steel structures are a combined 70% complete.

Wynn Al Marjan Island will have twenty-two restaurants, lounges and bars, as well as a nightclub and beach club. Guests will enjoy a luxury shopping promenade and a signature Wynn spa and salon. There will be an extensive 39,000 square foot poolscape adjacent to the beach. The 145,000 square-foot meetings and events center will include outdoor event terraces and lawns.

Shares of Wynn Resorts (NASDAQ:[WYNN](https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/WYNN "Wynn Resorts, Limited")) are down 6.4% for the early part of 2025.

[seekalpha](https://seekingalpha.com/news/4405050-wynn-resorts-secures-financing-for-resort-project-in-the-united-arab-emirates)
