---
title: "Here're carmakers embroiled in $6 billion of tax disputes in India"
date: "2025-02-12 19:35:25"
summary: "Carmakers and local authorities in India are embroiled in $6 billion worth of tax disputes spanning years of scrutiny by the income tax, customs and excise departments. Here are some of the biggest of those disputes, based on a Reuters analysis of the companies' latest financial disclosures. ALSO READ: Volkswagen's..."
categories:
  - "business-standard"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "business-standard"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Carmakers and local authorities in India are embroiled in $6 billion worth of tax disputes spanning years of scrutiny by the income tax, customs and excise departments.

Here are some of the biggest of those disputes, based on a Reuters analysis of the companies' latest financial disclosures. 

**ALSO READ: [Volkswagen's $1.4 bn India tax dispute revives foreign investor worries](/industry/auto/volkswagen-s-1-4-bn-india-tax-dispute-revives-foreign-investor-worries-125021200963_1.html)**

**Maruti Suzuki**

Maruti Suzuki, majority-owned by Japan's Suzuki Motor Corp, is disputing $2.4 billion in tax demands, of which about $2 billion is with the income tax department. Other major tax claims have been made by the excise and state authorities, with some dating back to the early 1990s.

 

**Skoda Auto Volkswagen India**

German automaker Volkswagen's local unit, Skoda Auto Volkswagen India, is fighting disputes worth $1.2 billion mainly with the tax and excise authorities. This excludes India's recent $1.4 billion import tax demand of the company.

**Mahindra & Mahindra**

Income tax and excise disputes make up the bulk of $694 million worth of demands faced by SUV-maker Mahindra & Mahindra.

**Hyundai Motor India**

South Korea's Hyundai Motor is disputing close to $490 million of demands, of which about $167 million is from customs tax authorities, making it among the highest customs tax demands from carmakers in the country.

**Honda Motor**

Japan's Honda Motor is battling tax disputes of $323 million, with income tax demands making up about 90% of the issue.

**Toyota Motor**

Japanese automaker Toyota Motor Corp is disputing $272 million of tax demands, mainly by the income tax and excise authorities.

[business-standard](https://www.business-standard.com/industry/auto/here-re-carmakers-embroiled-in-6-billion-of-tax-disputes-in-india-125021200958_1.html)
