---
title: "Visa relaxation shot in the arm after Bangladesh medical tourists dipped"
date: "2025-02-09 22:05:24"
summary: "India's medical tourism sector is likely to see double-digit growth in 2025 with leading hospitals expecting an uptick in patient footfall after the Centre’s announcement in the Union Budget to relax visa processes. The sector saw a setback last year as patients from Bangladesh, which contributes around 50-60 per cent..."
categories:
  - "business-standard"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "business-standard"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

India's medical tourism sector is likely to see double-digit growth in 2025 with leading hospitals expecting an uptick in patient footfall after the Centre’s announcement in the Union Budget to relax visa processes. The sector saw a setback last year as patients from Bangladesh, which contributes around 50-60 per cent to India's total medical tourism inflow, dropped significantly due to the political unrest in the country.
 
From April to September, major players reported an almost 25-40 per cent decline in footfall from Bangladesh. The Indian government allowed only emergency visas from Bangladesh after the Hasina government was toppled on August 5. 
 
Hospitals and industry experts believe that visa relaxations announced in Budget will remove key barriers for international patients and allow the sector to grow beyond metro cities, and into Tier-II and Tier-III locations. Fortis Healthcare saw a 35 per cent decline from Bangladesh even as the hospital chain is projecting an overall 15 per cent growth in international business this year. "We're taking a multi-pronged approach to grow our international patient base. This includes establishing information centers to guide patients, enhancing training for overseas doctors, building stronger institutional partnerships, expanding our digital footprint, and achieving international accreditations.  We anticipate up to 20 per cent growth as visa regulations become more streamlined," stated Ritu Mittal Garg, Chief Growth and Innovation Officer at Fortis Healthcare.
 
HCG Hospitals, which recorded a 15.5 per cent growth in international patients in FY24, is expecting a 45 per cent increase in FY25. The hospital’s Mumbai region has seen a steady influx of international patients, particularly from Bangladesh and West Asia, they claimed. The international patient revenue for the hospital stood at Rs 13 crore last year and is expected to rise to Rs 20 crore.
 
"Apart from eased visa regulations, our optimism is driven by government tie-ups with countries like Iraq, Mauritius, Tanzania, Kenya, Bangladesh, and Ethiopia, we foresee substantial growth in the coming year," said George Alex, Regional Business Head - Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh, HCG Hospitals.
 
Industry estimates indicate that India’s medical tourism market, valued at $7.69 billion in 2024, is projected to reach $8.71 billion in 2025 and nearly double to $16.21 billion by 2030, growing at a compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of 13.23 per cent. Hospitals across the country anticipate strong double-digit growth in their international patient segments, with key players outlining expansion plans.
 
India continues to be a preferred destination for international patients due to its affordability — offering medical procedures at 60-80 per cent lower costs than in developed nations like the US. Ranked 10th in the Medical Tourism Index 2020-21, India attracts approximately 2 million patients annually from 78 countries, including Bangladesh, Afghanistan, Pakistan, and African nations.

[business-standard](https://www.business-standard.com/industry/news/visa-relaxation-shot-in-the-arm-after-bangladesh-medical-tourists-dipped-125020900132_1.html)
