---
title: "Weak signals! Larsen & Toubro stock can crack another 16%; find out why"
date: "2025-02-13 14:25:26"
summary: "Larsen &amp; Toubro (L&amp;T) stock has cracked nearly 19 per cent from its all-time high of Rs 3,963 hit in December 2024. In the process, the stock has broken below key moving averages on the daily time-frame, and has made lower highs and lower lows in the last two weeks...."
categories:
  - "business-standard"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "business-standard"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Larsen & Toubro (L&T) stock has cracked nearly 19 per cent from its all-time high of Rs 3,963 hit in December 2024. In the process, the stock has broken below key moving averages on the daily time-frame, and has made lower highs and lower lows in the last two weeks.  On the weekly scale, the stock at present is seen testing support around the 100-WMA (Weekly Moving Average), which stands at Rs 3,218. Whereas, in the case of monthly scale, [Larsen & Toubro stock](https://www.business-standard.com/markets/larsen-toubro-ltd-share-price-348.html) is seen trading below its 20-MMA (Monthly Moving Average) for the first time since November 2020.  That apart, the 50-DMA of L&T stock today dipped below the long-term 200-DMA; this pattern implies formation of a 'Death Cross', which in technical is a bearish development. Hence, the stock could witness further downside in the near-term.  Here's how the L&T stock is placed on the charts, and the key levels to watch out for.  **Larsen & Toubro**  Current Price: Rs 3,287  Downside Risk: 16.3%  Support: Rs 3,218; Rs 3,120; Rs 3,020  Resistance: Rs 3,300; Rs 3,425  As per the weekly chart, a weekly close below Rs 3,300 shall mark the end of the bull-run that started in mid-July 2022. Similarly, a monthly close below Rs 3,425, shall indicate weakness on the longer-term chart. [**CLICK HERE FOR THE CHART**](https://bsmedia.business-standard.com/_media/bs/data/general-file-upload/2025-02/Larsen_130225.jpg)  Given these two negative developments, coupled with the formation of a 'Death Cross' pattern; the bias at the counter is likely to remain tepid.  For now, the key support remains the 100-WMA at Rs 3,218. Break and sustained trade below the same, can potentially trigger a slide towards the monthly super trend line support, which stands at Rs 2,750 - this implies a downside risk of 16.3 per cent from present levels. Interim support for the stock can be expected around Rs 3,120, Rs 3,020 levels.  In order to negate the negative set-up, L&T stock will need to close above Rs 3,300 on a weekly basis, and also above Rs 3,425 on a monthly basis.

[business-standard](https://www.business-standard.com/markets/news/weak-signals-larsen-toubro-stock-can-crack-another-16-find-out-why-125021300628_1.html)
