---
title: "Champions League playoffs: Can City spring a comeback vs Real in 2nd leg?"
date: "2025-02-12 06:25:25"
summary: "With Manchester City suffering a 3-2 defeat by the hands of defending champions Real Madrid in the 1st leg of the UEFA Champions League playoff tie at the Etihad stadium, they will hope to spring a comeback when they take on Los Blancos at the Santiago Bernabeu in the 2nd..."
categories:
  - "business-standard"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "business-standard"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

With Manchester City suffering a 3-2 defeat by the hands of defending champions Real Madrid in the 1st leg of the UEFA Champions League playoff tie at the Etihad stadium, they will hope to spring a comeback when they take on Los Blancos at the Santiago Bernabeu in the 2nd leg now.  A brace from City striker Erling Haaland gave City the advantage on the night but it was a resurgent Real performance later in the 2nd half which saw Jude Bellingham score a 92nd minute winner to register a 3-2 win which they get to take in the 2nd leg. 
**ALSO READ: [Champions League 2025 playoffs Brest vs PSG highlights: Dembele strikes twice as PSG beat Brest 3-0](https://www.business-standard.com/sports/football-news/champions-league-2025-playoffs-live-score-updates-brest-vs-psg-live-streaming-125021101048_1.html)** 
City know a thing or too about not taking a 1-goal lead lightly, especially against the likes Real Madrid who have punished City in the past as well. With the 2nd leg in a week, Pep Guardiola's side will hope to get a Round of 16 spot for themselves in a week's time but have to be content with a 1-goal deficit for now. 
For Real, it is massive advantage to take home in the 2nd leg as they are now the clear favourites to book themselves a place in the next round. 
 
**UEFA Champions League playoff Real Madrid vs Manchester City 2nd leg live telecast and streaming details** 
 
**When will the UCL playoff between Manchester City and Real Madrid be played?**
 
The 2nd leg of the UCL playoff between Manchester City and Real Madrid will be played on February 19.
 
**What time will the UCL playoff between Manchester City and Real Madrid begin on February 19?**
 
The UCL playoff between Manchester City and Real Madrid will start at 1:30 AM (Feb 20).
 
**Where will the live telecast of the UCL playoff between Manchester City and Real Madrid be available in India?**
 
The live telecast of the UCL playoff between Manchester City and Real Madrid will be available on the Sony Sports network.
 
**Where will the live streaming of the UCL playoff between Manchester City and Real Madrid be available in India?**
 
The live streaming of the UCL playoff between Manchester City and Real Madrid will be available on the SonyLIV app.

[business-standard](https://www.business-standard.com/sports/football-news/champions-league-playoffs-can-city-spring-a-comeback-vs-real-in-2nd-leg-125021200050_1.html)
