---
title: "Q3 results today: Hindalco, Godfrey Phillips to post earnings on Feb 13"
date: "2025-02-13 12:35:26"
summary: "Hindalco, United Breweries, Ipca, Godfrey Phillips India, SVJN, and other companies will be among 389 firms releasing their earnings report for the third quarter (Q3) of the financial year 2024-25 (FY25) on Thursday, February 13. Other key companies on the list include State-run iron ore mining company KIOCL, construction engineering..."
categories:
  - "business-standard"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "business-standard"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Hindalco, United Breweries, Ipca, Godfrey Phillips India, SVJN, and other companies will be among 389 firms releasing their [earnings report for the third quarter (Q3)](https://www.business-standard.com/topic/q3-results) of the financial year 2024-25 (FY25) on Thursday, February 13.
 
Other key companies on the list include State-run iron ore mining company KIOCL, construction engineering firm Afcons Infrastructure, EPC major Kalpataru Projects International, gold loan provider Manappuram Finance, rolling stock manufacturer Titagarh Rail Systems, Anil Ambani-led Reliance Infrastructure, and gaming and sports media platform Nazara Technologies. 

Ashok Leyland Q3 highlights
---------------------------

 
Ashok Leyland, the second-largest manufacturer of commercial vehicles in India, reported strong results for the quarter that ended on December 31, sparking optimism among analysts. Despite a challenging market, the company posted robust margins with a 35 per cent year-on-year increase in consolidated net profit at Rs 820 crore. The Hinduja Group flagship company achieved record net profit and revenue, driven by a 33 per cent growth in exports and improved sales during the festive season. Additionally, increased government investments contributed to the positive performance, while the export market also performed well during the period. 
**[Ashok Leyland's Q3 margin surprises Street](/markets/news/ashok-leyland-s-q3-margin-surprises-street-analyst-mixed-on-future-growth-125021300151_1.html)** 
 

HAL Q3 highlights
-----------------

 
Hindustan Aeronautics Limited (HAL) reported a 14 per cent rise in consolidated net profit to Rs 1,439.83 crore for Q3 FY25, up from Rs 1,261.40 crore last year. Revenue from operations grew 15 per cent to Rs 6,957.31 crore, compared to Rs 6,061 crore in the same period last year.
 
This earnings announcement came shortly after the Indian Air Force expressed concerns over delays in the delivery of Tejas Mk1A fighter jets, with Air Chief Marshal VR Chaudhari voicing dissatisfaction at the Aero India show in Bengaluru. 
**[HAL Q3 net profit rises 14%, dividend declared](/companies/results/hindustan-aeronautics-limited-hal-q3-fy25-results-profit-share-revenu-125021200753_1.html)**
 

Market review
-------------

On Wednesday, both the benchmark Sensex and Nifty indices closed lower for the sixth consecutive day. The [BSE Sensex](https://www.business-standard.com/markets/sp-bse-sensex-share-price-20558.html) finished at 76,171.08, down by 122.52 points, or 0.16 per cent, while the [NSE Nifty50](https://www.business-standard.com/markets/nse-nifty-indices-20559) ended 26.55 points, or 0.12 per cent, lower at 23,045.25.
 
On Thursday, the benchmark equity indices BSE Sensex and Nifty50 opened with slight gains, amid mixed global cues. At the opening bell, the BSE Sensex rose by 126 points, or 0.17 per cent, to 76,297, while the Nifty50 climbed 62.30 points, or 0.27 per cent, to 23,107.55.
 
Follow the latest market updates here: **[Stock Market LIVE Updates](/markets/news/stock-market-live-updates-modi-trump-meeting-sensex-today-nifty-feb-13-hindalco-q3-results-hexaware-tech-ipo-125021300105_1.html)**
 
Domestic stock markets today will react to the [consumer inflation data](https://www.business-standard.com/economy/news/january-2025-cpi-retail-inflation-food-prices-dec-industrial-output-125021200950_1.html) from both India and the US, which was released after market hours on Wednesday. In addition, market participants will be watching PM Modi's meeting with US President Donald Trump, foreign investor activity, the weekly Nifty F&O expiry, and any developments regarding the ongoing Russia-Ukraine war. 
**READ:**[**Will stock markets bounce back after Modi-Trump meeting?**](https://www.business-standard.com/markets/news/modi-us-visit-will-stock-markets-bounce-back-after-modi-trump-meeting-125021300421_1.html)
 

List of firms releasing Q3 FY25 results on Feb 13
-------------------------------------------------

Afcons Infrastructure Ltd
Allcargo Logistics Ltd
Bharat Rasayan Ltd
Bhagiradh Chemicals and Industries Ltd
Carborundum Universal Ltd
Concord Biotech Ltd
Deepak Nitrite Ltd
Godfrey Phillips India Ltd
Grindwell Norton Ltd
Harsha Engineers International Ltd
Hindalco Ltd
Hindustan Construction Company Ltd
India Tourism Development Corporation Ltd
Ipca Laboratories Ltd
ITI Ltd
Kalpataru Projects International Ltd
KIOCL Ltd
Laxmi Dental Ltd
Lux Industries Ltd
Lumax Auto Technologies Ltd
Manappuram Finance Ltd
Nazara Technologies Ltd
Nirlon Ltd
Polo Queen Industrial and Fintech Ltd
Quadrant Future Tek Ltd
Reliance Infrastructure Ltd
R Systems International Ltd
Senco Gold Ltd
Saraswati Saree Depot Ltd
Sanghvi Movers Ltd
SJVN Ltd
Sunflag Iron and Steel Company Ltd
Titagarh Rail Systems Ltd
United Breweries Ltd

[business-standard](https://www.business-standard.com/companies/results/q3-fy25-company-results-today-feb-13-hindalco-ipca-godfrey-phillips-svjn-125021300446_1.html)
