---
title: "2nd ODI: Sri Lanka vs Australia Playing 11, SL vs AUS live streaming"
date: "2025-02-14 12:30:30"
summary: "When Australia cricket team will take the field on February 14 (Friday) at R Premadasa Stadium in Colombo, Steve Smith's men would not only aim to level the two-match series but also brush up their final preparations for the ICC Champions Trophy 2025. In the second One-Day International, Sri Lanka..."
categories:
  - "business-standard"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "business-standard"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

When Australia cricket team will take the field on February 14 (Friday) at R Premadasa Stadium in Colombo, Steve Smith's men would not only aim to level the two-match series but also brush up their final preparations for the ICC Champions Trophy 2025.
 
In the second One-Day International, Sri Lanka won the toss and elected to bat first. The hosts have made only one change in their Playing 11 from previous match, bringing in Nishan Madushka for Avishka Fernando. 
Meanwhile, Australia, who lost the first ODI, made five changes in their Playing 11.  
[**Check ICC Champions Trophy 2025 full schedule, match timings (IST) here**](https://www.business-standard.com/cricket/champions-trophy/schedule) 

**Sri Lanka vs Australia 2nd ODI Playing 11**
---------------------------------------------

 
**Australia playing 11:** Matthew Short, Travis Head, Jake Fraser-McGurk, Steven Smith(c), Josh Inglis(w), Aaron Hardie, Glenn Maxwell, Sean Abbott, Ben Dwarshuis, Adam Zampa, Tanveer Sangha
 
**Sri Lanka playing 11:** Pathum Nissanka, Nishan Madushka, Kusal Mendis(w), Kamindu Mendis, Charith Asalanka(c), Janith Liyanage, Dunith Wellalage, Wanindu Hasaranga, Maheesh Theekshana, Eshan Malinga, Asitha Fernando 
Here's what both the captains said after the toss: 
**Steve Smith, Australia captain:** "It looks pretty similar to the other day. Hopefully we can bowl well today. Different team today. Just a couple of partnerships with the bat, guys getting big scores, that's about it." 
**Charith Asalanka, Sri Lanka captain:** Of course yes (batting). It looks same as the previous match. There's a change. Nishan Madushka comes in for Avishka Fernando. We got a win last game, it was nice.
 
**Colombo Pitch Report by former Sri Lanka cricketer Farveez Maharoof:** "Different pitch but it looks similar. Cracks are wider. You win the toss, bat first, score 230-240 and defend it." 
**Australian Batters Falter Under Pressure** 
Australia’s response was far from convincing, as key batters Steve Smith and Marnus Labuschagne managed just 12 and 15 runs, respectively. Wicketkeeper Alex Carey showed some resistance with a 41-run effort, but it was not enough to prevent his side from being bundled out for 165, handing Sri Lanka a commanding 49-run victory.
 
**Australia vs Sri Lanka head-to-head in ODIs**
 

* Total matches played: 105
* Australia won: 64
* Sri Lanka won: 37
* No result: 4
* Tied: 0

[**Check latest news on ICC Champions Trophy 2025 here**](https://www.business-standard.com/cricket/champions-trophy) 
**Squads:**
 
**Australia Squad:** Matthew Short, Jake Fraser-McGurk, Cooper Connolly, Steven Smith(c), Marnus Labuschagne, Alex Carey(w), Aaron Hardie, Sean Abbott, Nathan Ellis, Adam Zampa, Spencer Johnson, Travis Head, Josh Inglis, Glenn Maxwell, Tanveer Sangha, Mitchell Starc, Ben Dwarshuis.
 
**Sri Lanka Squad:** Pathum Nissanka, Avishka Fernando, Kusal Mendis(w), Kamindu Mendis, Charith Asalanka(c), Janith Liyanage, Dunith Wellalage, Wanindu Hasaranga, Maheesh Theekshana, Eshan Malinga, Asitha Fernando, Jeffrey Vandersay, Lahiru Kumara, Nuwanidu Fernando, Nishan Madushka, Mohamed Shiraz.

Sri Lanka vs Australia live telecast, SL vs AUS live streaming details
----------------------------------------------------------------------

**When will the Sri Lanka vs Australia 2nd ODI be played?**
 
The 2nd ODI between Sri Lanka and Australia will be played on Friday, February 14.
 
**Where will the live telecast of the Sri Lanka vs Australia 2nd ODI match be available in India?**
 
Sony Sports Network will live telecast the SL vs AUS 2nd ODI match in India on Sony Ten 2.
 
**What time the toss for 2nd ODI match between Sri Lanka and Australia will take place?**
 
The toss for the SL vs AUS 2nd ODI match will take place at 9:30 AM IST.
 
**What time will the 2nd ODI match between Sri Lanka and Australia begin?**
 
The SL vs AUS 2nd ODI match on February 14 will start at 10 AM IST.  [**Check ICC Champions Trophy 2025 points table here**](https://www.business-standard.com/cricket/champions-trophy/points-table)
 
**Where will the live streaming of the Sri Lanka vs Australia 2nd ODI match be available in India?**
 
The live streaming of the Pakistan vs South Africa ODI match will be available on the Sony LIV application and website.

[business-standard](https://www.business-standard.com/cricket/news/2nd-odi-sri-lanka-vs-australia-playing-11-sl-vs-aus-live-streaming-125021301118_1.html)
