---
title: "magicpin revenue triples to Rs 870 cr in FY24, becomes 3rd largest food app"
date: "2025-02-11 18:45:32"
summary: "Hyperlocal e-commerce startup magicpin has reported a threefold jump in its revenue, reaching Rs 870 crore in FY24, up from Rs 297 crore in the previous financial year. The company’s adjusted Ebitda (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortisation) margin narrowed to -9.8 per cent in FY24 from -39.2 per..."
categories:
  - "business-standard"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "business-standard"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Hyperlocal e-commerce startup magicpin has reported a threefold jump in its revenue, reaching Rs 870 crore in FY24, up from Rs 297 crore in the previous financial year.
 
The company’s adjusted Ebitda (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortisation) margin narrowed to -9.8 per cent in FY24 from -39.2 per cent in FY23 (Rs 86 crore vs Rs 117 crore, excluding ESOP expenses). The growth was accompanied by a sharp 30 per cent year-on-year (Y-o-Y) reduction in cash burn.
 
“The improved metrics highlight magicpin’s ongoing efforts to scale sustainably and move towards profitability,” the company said. It also cements magicpin's position as the country’s third-largest food delivery app. 
 
The company continued its dominance on the government-backed Open Network for Digital Commerce (ONDC), maintaining its status as the largest food delivery seller app on the network. It processed 1.5 lakh food and logistics orders daily through the network.
 
It has expanded its food delivery partnerships to include major brands such as Rebel Foods (Faasos, Oven Story, Behrouz Biryani), McDonald’s, Burger King, Wow! Momo, Pizza Hut, Barbeque Nation, and Barista.
 
The company recently launched magicNOW, its 15-minute food delivery service, which completed 2 lakh orders within its first month, catering to the rising demand for quick commerce. The company forayed into quick food delivery in December 2024.
 
In addition, magicFleet, the company’s AI-powered SaaS logistics platform, manages 3 lakh orders monthly. The company aims to scale this fleet to 1 lakh riders, targeting 10 lakh deliveries per month in the next three months. magicFleet has so far onboarded over 40,000 riders.
 
Beyond food delivery, magicpin has solidified its presence in the fashion retail sector, partnering with over 500 brands and 20,000 fashion stores across India. The collaborations include brands like Puma, Wildcraft, United Colors of Benetton, Levi’s, and Lifestyle.
 
Commenting on the company’s performance, Chunky Shah, chief financial officer of magicpin, said, “We are now India’s third-largest food delivery app and the largest seller app on ONDC for delivery. The 30 per cent reduction in burn demonstrates our disciplined approach to operations and extensive use of gen-AI, positioning us well for a sustainable growth trajectory.”
 
Speaking on the company’s market share, he added, “We have gained market share in major cities, with double-digit (more than 10 per cent approximately) market share in key markets like Delhi and Bengaluru in terms of overall food delivery.”

[business-standard](https://www.business-standard.com/companies/start-ups/magicpin-revenue-triples-to-rs-870-cr-in-fy24-becomes-3rd-largest-food-app-125021101256_1.html)
