---
title: "Eicher Motors Q3 results: Net profit jumps 15.6% to Rs 1,056 crore"
date: "2025-02-10 22:45:30"
summary: "Eicher Motors’ consolidated net profit surged 15.6 per cent year-on-year (Y-o-Y) to Rs 1,056 crore during the third quarter of 2024-25 owing to launches and strong demand in the festival season. Siddhartha Lal, managing director (MD), said, “We recorded our best-ever festive performance, introduced exciting new motorcycles, and took our..."
categories:
  - "business-standard"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "business-standard"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Eicher Motors’ consolidated net profit surged 15.6 per cent year-on-year (Y-o-Y) to Rs 1,056 crore during the third quarter of 2024-25 owing to launches and strong demand in the festival season.
 
Siddhartha Lal, managing director (MD), said, “We recorded our best-ever festive performance, introduced exciting new motorcycles, and took our first step into electric mobility with the debut of our electric vehicle brand, Flying Flea... Even as the commercial vehicles industry remained sluggish, VE Commercial Vehicles (also known as VECV) saw volume growth quarter-on-quarter (Q-o-Q) with strengthened market share in all segments.”
 
“With this momentum across both motorcycle and commercial vehicle businesses, we are confident of continued success in the future as well,” Lal added. VECV is a joint venture between Volvo Group and Eicher Motors.  
 
Total income rose 21 per cent to Rs 5,208 crore in the third quarter of 2024-25. 
 
B Govindarajan, chief executive officer (CEO), Royal Enfield, and whole-time director, Eicher Motors, told analysts during the post-results call that the company's launches, inventory build-up towards the festival season and a strong marketing campaign boosted sales volume in the December quarter.
 
He added that the middleweight section — wherein Royal Enfield operates — has been seeing higher growth than the overall motorcycle industry.
 
“In the long run, this section's growth will remain higher than the overall growth,” he said.
 
In India, middleweight bikes (250–750 cc) offer a balance of power and practicality, catering to enthusiasts seeking performance for city rides and highway touring. 
 
Govindarajan said the company is focusing on marketing various models. “We are adding value to the product...We have to now do brand building activity. We are now focusing on marketing,” he added.
 
Royal Enfield's share in the motorcycle segment increased from 2 per cent in 2013-14 to 6.9 per cent in the first nine months of FY25.

[business-standard](https://www.business-standard.com/companies/results/eicher-motors-q3-results-net-profit-jumps-15-6-to-rs-1-056-crore-125021001128_1.html)
