---
title: "'Swindler, Scam Altman': Musk hits back after OpenAI buyout rejection"
date: "2025-02-11 14:50:31"
summary: "Yet again, Elon Musk has stirred a row with his post on X. In his latest post, Musk called OpenAI CEO Sam Altman a \"swindler\". Musk's comment came after Altman rejected the former's offer to buy OpenAI. A consortium of investors, led by Musk, had made an unsolicited bid of..."
categories:
  - "business-standard"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "business-standard"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Yet again, Elon Musk has stirred a row with his post on X. In his latest post, Musk called OpenAI CEO Sam Altman a "swindler". Musk's comment came after Altman rejected the former's offer to buy OpenAI.
 
A consortium of investors, led by Musk, had made an unsolicited bid of $97.4 billion to purchase the non-profit overseeing OpenAI. The Tesla chief framed the offer as an effort to restore the organisation to its original mission of being an "open-source, safety-focused force for good".   
> Scam Altman  [pic.twitter.com/j9EXIqBZ8u](https://t.co/j9EXIqBZ8u)
> 
> — Elon Musk (@elonmusk) [February 10, 2025](https://twitter.com/elonmusk/status/1889070627908145538?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw)


  
 
Altman, however, dismissed the proposal with a pointed jab at Musk’s social media venture. "No thank you, but we will buy Twitter for $9.74 billion if you want," he quipped, referencing Musk’s 2022 acquisition of Twitter for $44 billion and its subsequent drop in valuation.   
 
Musk fired back in the comments, simply writing "Swindler", before posting a video of Altman with the caption "Scam Altman".  
 
**Altman-Musk: A long-running AI rivalry**
 
The friction between Musk and Altman stems from their diverging approaches to artificial intelligence. Once a co-founder of OpenAI, Musk has since become a vocal critic, accusing Altman of prioritising commercial gains over AI ethics. Their dispute escalated in 2023 when Musk launched xAI as a direct competitor to OpenAI’s ChatGPT, followed by a lawsuit in 2024 over OpenAI’s ties to Microsoft.  
 
In 2025, their clash took on political dimensions with the launch of Stargate, a $500 billion AI initiative backed by former US President Donald Trump and Altman. While Trump praised Altman’s leadership, Musk dismissed the project as financially unsound and used X to attack Altman personally. In response, Altman questioned Musk’s intentions, further deepening an already heated and highly publicised AI rivalry.

[business-standard](https://www.business-standard.com/world-news/elon-musk-sam-altman-openai-ceo-twitter-chatgpt-swindler-donald-trump-125021100631_1.html)
