---
title: "Realme unveils P3 Pro glow-in-the-dark design ahead of launch: Take a look"
date: "2025-02-11 15:35:28"
summary: "Chinese smartphone brand Realme has revealed a new \"Nebula Design\" for the upcoming P3 Pro smartphone. The company said that the Realme P3 Pro's back panel design showcases a \"celluloid texture\" where each thread and strand is distinct. This design will incorporate luminous colour-changing fibre, which the company said will..."
categories:
  - "business-standard"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "business-standard"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Chinese smartphone brand Realme has revealed a new "Nebula Design" for the upcoming P3 Pro smartphone. The company said that the Realme P3 Pro's back panel design showcases a "celluloid texture" where each thread and strand is distinct. This design will incorporate luminous colour-changing fibre, which the company said will absorb light and glow in the dark. Realme said that the design of the smartphone is inspired from the ever-changing nature of a nebula and the "interaction of ultraviolet light with cosmic dust."
 
[Realme P3 Pro](https://www.business-standard.com/technology/tech-news/realme-p3-pro-to-debut-with-qualcomm-sd-7s-gen-3-on-feb-18-what-to-expect-125020600486_1.html) is set to launch in India on February 18 in three colourways: Nebula Glow, Saturn Brown and Galaxy Purple, which will be exclusive to the Indian market. 
 
**Realme P3 Pro: What to expect**
 
Realme has announced that the P3 Pro will be powered by the Qualcomm Snapdragon 7s Gen three processor, built using TSMC's 4nm process. The company claims the chipset offers a 20 per cent improvement in CPU performance and up to 40 per cent better GPU performance compared to its predecessor.
 
The smartphone will feature a quad-curved display, which Realme describes as being optimised for gaming, enabling smooth edge swipes and an immersive visual experience.
 
For power, the P3 Pro will house a 6,000mAh battery with support for 80W fast wired charging. To manage heat, the device will incorporate an aerospace-grade vapour chamber cooling system covering 6,050 mm square. Realme states that this set-up helps maintain high frame rates, stable performance, and prevents frame drops.
 
The P3 Pro will also introduce GT Boost technology, developed in collaboration with KRAFTON. Positioned as a gaming-focused device, it will support BGMI with AI-driven features such as Ultra-Steady Frames, a Hyper Response Engine, AI Ultra Touch Control, and AI Motion Control. These enhancements are designed to offer precise controls, gesture-based gameplay, and esports-level responsiveness.

[business-standard](https://www.business-standard.com/technology/tech-news/realme-unveils-p3-pro-glow-in-the-dark-design-ahead-of-launch-take-a-look-125021100785_1.html)
