---
title: "Pressure mounts on extending Gaza ceasefire as details on hostages emerge"
date: "2025-02-10 09:35:25"
summary: "New details and growing shock over emaciated hostages renewed pressure Sunday on Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu to extend a fragile Gaza ceasefire beyond the first phase ending in three weeks. Talks on the second phase, meant to see more hostages released and a complete Israeli withdrawal from Gaza, were..."
categories:
  - "business-standard"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "business-standard"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

New details and growing shock over emaciated hostages renewed pressure Sunday on Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu to extend a fragile Gaza ceasefire beyond the first phase ending in three weeks.

Talks on the second phase, meant to see more hostages released and a complete Israeli withdrawal from Gaza, were due to start Feb. 3. But Israel and Hamas appear to have made little progress, even as Israeli forces withdrew Sunday from a Gaza corridor in the latest commitment to the truce.

Netanyahu sent a delegation to Qatar, a key mediator, but it included low-level officials, sparking speculation that it won't lead to a breakthrough. Netanyahu, who returned after a U.S. visit to meet with President Donald Trump, is expected to convene security Cabinet ministers on Tuesday.

 

Trump himself suggested he was losing patience with the deal after seeing the emaciated hostages released this week.

I watched the hostages come back today and they looked like Holocaust survivors. They were in horrible condition. They were emaciated. It looked like many years ago, the Holocaust survivors, and I don't know how much longer we can take that, he told reporters onboard Air Force One as he traveled to the Super Bowl on Sunday.

I know we have a deal where we're supposed to get -- they dribble in and keep dribbling in -- but they are in really bad shape, he said. You know at some point, we're going to lose our patience.

Families of remaining hostages said time is running out as some survivors described being barefoot and in chains.

We cannot let the hostages remain there. There is no other way. I am appealing to the cabinet, said Ella Ben Ami, daughter of a hostage released Saturday, adding she now understands the toll of captivity is much worse than imagined.

The father of a remaining hostage, Kobi Ohel, told Israel's Channel 13 the newly released men said his son, Alon, and others "live off half a pita to a full pita a day. These are not human conditions. Ohel's mother, Idit, sobbed as she told Channel 12 her son has been chained for over a year.

Michael Levy said his brother, the newly released Or Levy, had been barefoot and hungry for 16 months. The decision-makers knew exactly what his condition was and what everyone else's condition was, and they did not do enough to bring him back with the urgency that was needed," he said.

On Saturday, as Israelis reeled, former defense minister Yoav Gallant said on social media that the deterioration in hostages' conditions was something Israel has known about for some time.

The ceasefire that began on Jan. 19 has held, raising hopes that the 16-month war that led to seismic shifts in the Middle East may be headed toward an end.

The latest step was Israel forces' withdrawal from the 4-mile (6-kilometer) Netzarim corridor separating northern and southern Gaza, which was used as a military zone. No troops were seen in the vicinity Sunday. As the ceasefire began last month, Israel began allowing hundreds of thousands of displaced Palestinians to cross Netzarim and return to the north.

But the deal remains fragile. On Sunday, civil defense first responders in Gaza said Israeli fire killed three people east of Gaza City. Israel's military noted several hits after firing warning shots and warned Palestinians against approaching its forces.

Cars piled with belongings headed north. Under the deal, Israel should allow cars to cross Netzarim uninspected. Troops remain along Gaza's borders with Israel and Egypt.

Hamas spokesperson Abdel Latif Al-Qanoua said the troops' withdrawal showed the militant group had forced the enemy to submit to our demands" and thwarted Netanyahu's illusion of achieving total victory.

Israel has said it won't agree to a complete withdrawal from Gaza until Hamas' military and political capabilities are eliminated. Hamas says it won't hand over the last hostages until Israel removes all troops.

During the ceasefire's 42-day first phase, Hamas is gradually releasing 33 Israeli hostages captured during its Oct. 7, 2023, attack that sparked the war in exchange for the release of nearly 2,000 Palestinian prisoners and a flood of humanitarian aid to Gaza.

Israel has said Hamas confirmed that eight of the 33 are dead.

Families of the hostages gathered in Tel Aviv to urge Netanyahu to extend the ceasefire, but he is also under pressure from far-right political allies to resume the war.

They are dying there, so we need to finish this deal in a hurry, said Ayala Metzger, daughter-in-law of hostage Yoram Metzger, who died in captivity.

Complicating things further is Trump's proposal to relocate the population of Gaza and take ownership of the territory. Israel has expressed openness to the idea a revolutionary, creative vision," Netanyahu told his Cabinet on Sunday while Hamas, the Palestinians and much of the world have rejected it.

Egypt said it will host an emergency Arab summit on Feb. 27 to discuss the new and dangerous developments." 
Trump's proposal has moral, legal and practical obstacles. It may have been proposed as a negotiation tactic to pressure Hamas or an opening gambit in discussions aimed at securing a normalization deal between Israel and Saudi Arabia.

Saudi Arabia condemned Netanyahu's recent comment that Palestinians could create their state there, saying it aimed to divert attention from crimes committed by "the Israeli occupation against our Palestinian brothers in Gaza, including the ethnic cleansing they are being subjected to.

Qatar called Netanyahu's comment provocative and a blatant violation of international law.

[business-standard](https://www.business-standard.com/world-news/pressure-mounts-on-extending-gaza-ceasefire-as-details-on-hostages-emerge-125021000045_1.html)
