---
title: "Trump speaks to Zelenskyy, discuss meeting set to be held in Munich: WH"
date: "2025-02-13 10:15:26"
summary: "US President Donald Trump spoke to his Ukrainian counterpart Volodymyr Zelenskyy after having telephonic conversation with Russian President Vladimir Putin, White House Press Secretary Karoline Leavitt announced on Wednesday (local time). While addressing a press briefing on Wednesday (local time), Leavitt said that the calls between Zelenskyy and Trump were..."
categories:
  - "business-standard"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "business-standard"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

US President Donald Trump spoke to his Ukrainian counterpart Volodymyr Zelenskyy after having telephonic conversation with Russian President Vladimir Putin, White House Press Secretary Karoline Leavitt announced on Wednesday (local time).

While addressing a press briefing on Wednesday (local time), Leavitt said that the calls between Zelenskyy and Trump were "very positive" and expressed the US government's commitment to a "peace deal" and ending the war between Russia and Ukraine.

Quoting Trump, she said that the President of US and Ukraine spoke about the meeting being set up in Munich on Friday where US Vice President JD Vance and US Secretary of State Marco Rubio will lead the delegation.

Karoline Leavitt said, "The President just spoke to President Putin of Russia. They spoke at length and the president released a statement following that conversation in great detail. I can also confirm that the President also just got off the phone with President Zelenskyy of Ukraine. His truth is as follows: 'I just spoke to President Zelenskyy of Ukraine, and the conversation went very well. He, like President Putin, wants to make peace. We discussed a variety of topics having to do with the war but mostly, the meeting that is being set up on Friday in Munich where Vice President JD Vance and Secretary of State Marco Rubio will lead the delegation."

"I am hopeful that the result of that meeting will be positive. It is time to stop this ridiculous war where there has been massive and totally unnecessary death and destruction. God bless the people of Russia and Ukraine.' I myself spoke to the President about these calls and he told me to tell you that they were very good calls. They were very positive and the administration is wholeheartedly committed to a peace deal to end once and for all the Russia-Ukraine war," she added.

Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy also took to X to share details regarding his conversation with Trump. He appreciated Trump's genuine interest in shared opportunities and how they can bring peace together. 

 
> I had a long and detailed conversation with President Trump. I appreciate his genuine interest in our shared opportunities and how we can bring about real peace together. 
> We discussed many aspects—diplomatic, military, and economic—and President Trump informed me about what… [pic.twitter.com/flmigxqtbl](https://t.co/flmigxqtbl)
> 
> — Volodymyr Zelenskyy / Володимир Зеленський (@ZelenskyyUa) [February 12, 2025](https://twitter.com/ZelenskyyUa/status/1889773900353151436?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw)

"I had a long and detailed conversation with President Trump. I appreciate his genuine interest in our shared opportunities and how we can bring about real peace together. We discussed many aspects--diplomatic, military, and economic--and President Trump informed me about what Putin told him. We believe that America's strength, together with Ukraine and all our partners, is enough to push Russia to peace," Zelenskyy posted on X.

Before speaking to Zelenskyy, Trump held telephonic conversation with Russian President Vladimir Putin. Trump revealed that he had a productive phone call with him, where they agreed to kick-start negotiations aimed at ending the conflict in Ukraine immediately.

Other than Ukraine, both leaders also discussed the Middle East, Artificial Intelligence (AI), energy and other subjects. Trump said that he and Putin agreed to have their respective teams start negotiations immediately and begin by calling Ukraine President Volodymyr Zelenskyy regarding the conversation.

In a post shared on his social media platform Truth Social, Trump stated that he has asked US Secretary of State Marco Rubio, Director of the CIA John Ratcliffe, National Security Advisor Michael Waltz, and Ambassador and Special Envoy Steve Witkoff, to lead the negotiations.

Calling his conversation with Putin on a phone call "lengthy and productive", Trump said that they discussed about strengths of Russia and US and the benefit that they will someday have by working together.

"I just had a lengthy and highly productive phone call with President Vladimir Putin of Russia. We discussed Ukraine, the Middle East, Energy, Artificial Intelligence, the power of the Dollar, and various other subjects. We both reflected on the Great History of our Nations, and the fact that we fought so successfully together in World War II, remembering, that Russia lost tens of millions of people, and we, likewise, lost so many! We each talked about the strengths of our respective Nations, and the great benefit that we will someday have in working together. But first, as we both agreed, we want to stop the millions of deaths taking place in the War with Russia/Ukraine. President Putin even used my very strong Campaign motto of, "COMMON SENSE." We both believe very strongly in it," Trump posted on Truth Social.

He further stated, "We agreed to work together, very closely, including visiting each other's Nations. We have also agreed to have our respective teams start negotiations immediately, and we will begin by calling President Zelenskyy, of Ukraine, to inform him of the conversation, something which I will be doing right now. I have asked Secretary of State Marco Rubio, Director of the CIA John Ratcliffe, National Security Advisor Michael Waltz, and Ambassador and Special Envoy Steve Witkoff, to lead the negotiations which, I feel strongly, will be successful. Millions of people have died in a War that would not have happened if I were President, but it did happen, so it must end. No more lives should be lost!"

Trump also thanked Putin for his time and effort for the call and for the release of Marc Fogel. "I want to thank President Putin for his time and effort with respect to this call, and for the release, yesterday, of Marc Fogel, a wonderful man that I personally greeted last night at the White House. I believe this effort will lead to a successful conclusion, hopefully soon," Trump posted on Truth Social.

[business-standard](https://www.business-standard.com/world-news/trump-speaks-to-zelenskyy-discuss-meeting-set-to-be-held-in-munich-wh-125021300054_1.html)
