---
title: "PM Modi stresses on building 'bias-free' data sets at AI summit in Paris"
date: "2025-02-11 17:45:28"
summary: "Prime Minister Narendra Modi addressed the AI Action Summit in Paris on Tuesday, calling for global collaboration to harness artificial intelligence (AI) for economic growth, social transformation, and sustainable development. PM Modi stressed on the need to build quality data sets which are \"free from biases\" to develop open-source systems..."
categories:
  - "business-standard"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "business-standard"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Prime Minister Narendra Modi addressed the AI Action Summit in Paris on Tuesday, calling for global collaboration to harness artificial intelligence (AI) for economic growth, social transformation, and sustainable development. PM Modi stressed on the need to build quality data sets which are "free from biases" to develop open-source systems that enhance trust and transparency.   Co-chairing the event alongside French President Emmanuel Macron, Modi highlighted both the opportunities and challenges posed by AI, advocating for a balanced approach to AI governance. 
Speaking at the AI Action Summit in Paris, PM Modi said, "Governance is also about ensuring access to all, especially in the Global South. It is where the capabilities are most lacking be it power, talent, or data for the financial resources. AI can help transform millions of lives by improving health, education, agriculture and so much more. It can help create a world in which the journey to sustainable development goals becomes easier and faster."  
 
"To do this, we must pull together resources and talent. We must develop open-source systems that enhance trust and transparency. We must build quality data sets free from biases," he added.

[business-standard](https://www.business-standard.com/technology/tech-news/pm-modi-address-ai-action-summit-paris-open-source-data-sets-bias-jobs-125021101117_1.html)
