---
title: "Aequs, Tramontina form joint venture to produce cookware in India"
date: "2025-02-11 18:45:31"
summary: "Belagavi-based manufacturing firm Aequs Private Ltd and Brazilian homeware products company, Tramontina, on Tuesday announced a joint venture (JV) to produce cookware and other consumer products for customers in India and abroad. The JV entails an investment of up to Rs 80 crore. Aequs Cookware Pvt Ltd (ACPL), the new..."
categories:
  - "business-standard"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "business-standard"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Belagavi-based manufacturing firm Aequs Private Ltd and Brazilian homeware products company, Tramontina, on Tuesday announced a joint venture (JV) to produce cookware and other consumer products for customers in India and abroad.
 
The JV entails an investment of up to Rs 80 crore.
 
Aequs Cookware Pvt Ltd (ACPL), the new 50:50 JV, will manufacture cookware at the manufacturing facilities of Aequs at the Hubballi Durable Goods Cluster (HDC). This will be the only manufacturing facility outside of the Americas for Tramontina, a homeware products conglomerate headquartered in Brazil.
 
“We are bringing their over 100 years of expertise of cookware manufacturing to India. This collaboration is a testament to our capabilities, and together, we aim to establish this joint venture as a leader in cookware manufacturing from India,” said Aravind Melligeri, chairman and CEO of Aequs. 
 
“The growing global demand for premium cookware presents a tremendous opportunity, and this partnership positions us to serve both domestic and global markets. By combining Aequs’ integrated manufacturing ecosystem with Tramontina’s global strength, we will drive innovation, efficiency, and scale to deliver world class products,” Melligeri said.
 
Leveraging the competitive advantage of Make in India, the JV combines Tramontina’s decades of leadership in the cookware industry, and experience in product development and manufacturing, with Aequs’ precision manufacturing capabilities. Additionally, the JV will benefit from the 400-acre consumer ecosystem at the HDC, which provides a comprehensive, one-stop manufacturing infrastructure.
 
“In addition to enabling a more effective presence in the Indian market, the Hubballi unit will allow us to serve the global market with high-quality products under highly competitive conditions,” said Eduardo Scomazzon, chairman of the board of directors, Tramontina.
 
Tramontina, a global brand with over 113 years of manufacturing experience, has a portfolio of more than 22,000 kitchenware and household goods sold in over 120 countries. Its kitchenware range includes utensils, equipment, and appliances.
 
Tramontina entered India last year with an omnichannel retail strategy that seeks to leverage general commerce, modern retail, and e-commerce platforms for a wide distribution of its products in the country. Initially, several lines of knives, accessories and kitchen utensils were launched, with more than 130 new items, especially developed for Indian customers, aiming to meet local demand and expand market share in Asia.

[business-standard](https://www.business-standard.com/companies/news/aequs-tramontina-form-joint-venture-to-produce-cookware-in-india-125021101036_1.html)
