---
title: "Trump orders freeze of aid to S Africa citing land expropriation law"
date: "2025-02-08 10:55:26"
summary: "President Donald Trump signed an executive order Friday formalising his announcement earlier this week that he'll freeze assistance to South Africa for a law aiming to address some of the wrongs of South Africa's racist apartheid era a law the White House says amounts to discrimination against the country's white..."
categories:
  - "business-standard"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "business-standard"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

President Donald Trump signed an executive order Friday formalising his announcement earlier this week that he'll freeze assistance to South Africa for a law aiming to address some of the wrongs of South Africa's racist apartheid era a law the White House says amounts to discrimination against the country's white minority.

As long as South Africa continues to support bad actors on the world stage and allows violent attacks on innocent disfavoured minority farmers, the United States will stop aid and assistance to the country, the White House said in a summary of the order. The White House said Trump is also going to announce a programme to resettle white South African farmers and their families as refugees.

 

Trump was responding to a new law in South Africa that gives the government powers in some instances to expropriate land from people. The White House said the law blatantly discriminates against ethnic minority Afrikaners.

The Expropriation Act was signed into law by South African President Cyril Ramaphosa last month and allows the government to take land in specific instances where it is not being used, or where it would be in the public interest if it is redistributed.

It aims to address some of the wrongs of South Africa's racist apartheid era, when Black people had land taken away from them and were forced to live in areas designated for non-whites.

Elon Musk, a close Trump ally and head of Trump's new Department of Government Efficiency, has highlighted that law in recent social media posts and cast it as a threat to South Africa's white minority.

The order also references South Africa's role in bringing accusations of genocide against Israel before the International Court of Justice.

The halt in foreign aid to South Africa comes amid a broader pause to most US overseas assistance under Trump, as he looks to shift to what he calls an America First foreign policy.

[business-standard](https://www.business-standard.com/world-news/trump-orders-freeze-of-aid-to-s-africa-citing-land-expropriation-law-125020800056_1.html)
