---
title: "Valentine's Day: From flowers to diamonds, biz owners expect sales to soar"
date: "2025-02-13 02:30:32"
summary: "With Valentine’s Day around the corner, love is in the air — and so are discounts, as couples shop for their special someone. From flowers to diamonds, business owners expect sales to soar across categories. Jewellery giant Tanishq, from the house of Tata, will launch the Soulmates collection — a..."
categories:
  - "business-standard"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "business-standard"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

With Valentine’s Day around the corner, love is in the air — and so are discounts, as couples shop for their special someone.
 
From flowers to diamonds, business owners expect sales to soar across categories.
 
Jewellery giant Tanishq, from the house of Tata, will launch the Soulmates collection — a set of natural diamond engagement rings — on Valentine’s Day.
 
Forevermark, the retail offering of De Beers Group, has introduced its Forevermark Icon Collection in 18-carat rose, yellow, and white gold, featuring rings, earrings, bracelets, and more.
 
It’s not just natural diamonds in demand. As more consumers embrace laboratory-grown diamonds, several brands in the young category are hoping for a bumper season. 
 
“We anticipate a 30-35 per cent increase in sales this Valentine’s Day compared to last year. With a rising consumer inclination toward meaningful, personalised gifting and sustainable luxury, we expect strong demand,” said Vidita Kochar, co-founder of Jewelbox.
 
The company is also offering 20 per cent off on diamonds and 25 per cent off on making charges to boost sales for the occasion.
 
Online gifting portals, with a variety of options, are expecting increased revenue, too.
 
“Valentine’s Day remains one of the biggest occasions for gifting, with a growing consumer preference for thoughtful and premium offerings. This year, we foresee a 25-30 per cent growth over last year, driven by increased demand for personalised gifts, luxury assortments, and exclusive Valentine’s collections,” said Pawan Gadia, global chief executive officer (CEO), Ferns N Petals.
 
While flowers, especially roses, remain the first choice for gifting, cakes, hampers, and plants also see strong demand this season, Gadia added.
 
IGP, another major player in the online gifting category, has seen a 30 per cent year-on-year increase in traffic around this Valentine’s Day.
 
“We expect even stronger momentum this year, with a 40 per cent increase in revenue compared to last year. During Valentine’s Week, we saw a substantial rise in orders compared to other peak periods. Sales surged 15x, driven largely by demand for flowers, especially roses,” said Tarun Joshi, founder and CEO of IGP.
 
This year, the company has increased its marketing investments by 25 per cent to maximise reach and engagement during this key period.
 
Accessories company Bagline, which retails brands like Tommy Hilfiger and Aeropostale in India, has curated collections for the occasion and is running a Valentine’s Day special lucky draw offer across all its stores.
 
“We are expecting a 20 per cent growth over the last month and a 10 per cent increase in the average selling price at all our stores. Currently, the online Valentine’s store is receiving around 2,000 sessions, and in-store footfall continues to grow,” said Abhinav Kumar, co-founder of Brand Concepts.
 
Men’s fragrance brand Denver, meanwhile, is seeing over a 250 per cent surge in sales for the season.
 
Luxury Swiss watchmaker Rado, too, expects sustained momentum in gifting with Valentine’s Day, Adrian Bosshard, global CEO of the company, told Business Standard last week.
 
With Valentine’s Day falling on a Friday, travel is also picking up as people look for quick getaways over the weekend.
 
“Couples are moving beyond traditional dinner dates to experience luxurious retreats or adventure-packed rendezvous. Whether it’s a budget-friendly beach escape or an opulent European getaway, the focus is on connection and exclusivity,” said Hari Ganapathy, cofounder of Pickyourtrail.
 
According to the online travel company, Delhi leads the way in Valentine’s Day travel bookings, with Chennai and Bengaluru following closely as major hubs for romantic getaways.
 
Most couples are opting for a four- to five-day stay, with all-inclusive packages, private transfers, and curated romantic experiences influencing their travel budgets.
 
Bali remains the top choice, with 21 per cent of travellers heading to the Southeast Asian island, followed by the Maldives, Thailand, and Vietnam.
 
IndiGo, meanwhile, has announced a limited-time offer with discounts of up to 50 per cent on base airfares for two flyers. Starting Wednesday, the offer is valid until February 16 for select domestic and international routes.
 
Café Akasa, the onboard meal service from Akasa Air, has also launched its Valentine’s Day special gourmet menu, featuring heart-shaped pizza pockets and chocolate-strawberry truffle pastries, among other specially curated dishes available only this month.
 
Hospitality giant Radisson is also expecting higher occupancy.
 
“The weekend following Valentine’s Day will see a 15 per cent higher room occupancy compared to a normal weekend in a peak season month. There has also been a surge in weddings and wedding-related functions around this weekend at most of our hotels, indicating that Valentine’s Day is becoming a preferred day for February weddings,” said a Radisson Hotel Group spokesperson. 
> **Tugging at pursestrings**
> 
> * Tanishq to launch new Soulmates collection of engagement rings
> * Lab-grown diamond brand Jewelbox expects 30-35% rise in sales
> * Forevermark unveils exclusive Icon Collection in 18-carat gold, rose gold, and white gold
> * Fern N Petals expects 20-25% growth, driven by roses
> * Pickyourtrail says Bali is top choice for V-Day getaways
> * IndiGo announces discounts of up to 50% for two flyers

[business-standard](https://www.business-standard.com/industry/news/valentine-s-day-from-flowers-to-diamonds-biz-owners-expect-sales-to-soar-125021201602_1.html)
