---
title: "Nykaa Q3FY25 results: Net profit increases 51.3% to Rs 26.41 crore"
date: "2025-02-10 23:25:30"
summary: "Fashion and beauty retailer Nykaa on Monday reported a sharp 51.3 per cent rise in its net profit for the third quarter of financial year 2025 (Q3FY25), backed by healthy festival sales. The net profit of FSN E-Commerce Ventures -- the parent firm of Nykaa -- came in at Rs..."
categories:
  - "business-standard"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "business-standard"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Fashion and beauty retailer Nykaa on Monday reported a sharp 51.3 per cent rise in its net profit for the third quarter of financial year 2025 (Q3FY25), backed by healthy festival sales.
 
The net profit of FSN E-Commerce Ventures -- the parent firm of Nykaa -- came in at Rs 26.41 crore in Q3FY25, against Rs 17.45 crore in the year ago period.
 
Sequentially, the net profit rose 103.6 per cent from Rs 12.97 crore a quarter ago.
 
The firm’s consolidated revenue from operations stood at Rs 2267.2 crore, up 26.7 per cent from Rs 1,788.8 crore reported in the corresponding quarter of the previous financial year. 
 
However, the company’s expenses also surged to Rs 2,228.18 crore in the third quarter, compared to Rs 1,769.89 crore a year ago. The total expenses amounted to Rs 1,858.93 crore in the previous quarter.
 
Nykaa’s earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortisation (Ebitda) grew 42.5 per cent to Rs 140.8 crore in Q3FY25.
 
The firm’s beauty vertical was up 32 per cent year-on-year (Y-o-Y), reaching GMV of Rs 3,389.9 crore in Q3FY25 from Rs 2,569.6 crore in Q3FY24. “This was fuelled by customer growth with Nykaa’s cumulative beauty customer base growing to 32 million and One Nykaa cumulative base to 40 million. The solid order volume growth of 30 per cent Y-o-Y, is the highest growth in the last 9 quarters,” the company said in a press release.
 
On the other hand, the company’s fashion arm registered an 8 per cent GMV growth in December quarter at Rs 1,129.9 crore compared to Rs 1,046.5 crore in the corresponding quarter last year. “The fashion vertical continues to show improvement in profitability with cost efficiencies across several cost items,” according to the company.
 
Nykaa’s flagship ‘Pink Friday Sale’ delivered a 36 per cent Y-o-Y growth with nearly 86 million visits on the platform over the 10-day sale period. The number of unique visits amounted to 30 million.
 
In Q3FY25, the company launched 12 new stores, taking the total store tally to 221 stores. The company delivered 70 per cent of beauty orders within the same or the next day in the top 110 cities.
 
Superstore, Nykaa’s distribution business, saw a 52.7 per cent Y-o-Y GMV growth at Rs 259.7 crore, up from Rs 170 crore a year ago. It achieved a milestone of Rs 1,000 crore annualised run rate in 3 years. The business’ contribution margin improved by 509 bps Y-o-Y, to -12.1 per cent in Q3FY25 from -17.2 per cent in Q3FY24.
 
LBB, Nykaa’s content platform business, saw strong growth this quarter. “The growth was aided by hugely successful marketing campaigns and events such as Nykaaland and Nykaa wali Shaadi, driving overall higher revenue growth for the Fashion vertical,” the company said.

[business-standard](https://www.business-standard.com/companies/results/nykaa-q3fy25-results-net-profit-increases-51-3-to-rs-26-41-crore-125021001142_1.html)
