---
title: "Shakur Basti Assembly result Satyendar Jain Karnail Singh Satish Luthra"
date: "2025-02-08 11:05:32"
summary: "Shakur Basti Assembly result 2025: Satyendar Jain up against Karnail Singh As counting of votes begins for the 2025 Delhi Legislative Assembly elections, all eyes will be on the Shakur Basti constituency in the North Delhi district, where a three-way battle is expected between the Aam Aadmi Party's (AAP) Satyendar..."
categories:
  - "business-standard"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "business-standard"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Shakur Basti Assembly result 2025: Satyendar Jain up against Karnail Singh
As counting of votes begins for the 2025 Delhi Legislative Assembly elections, all eyes will be on the Shakur Basti constituency in the North Delhi district, where a three-way battle is expected between the Aam Aadmi Party's (AAP) Satyendar Jain, Bharatiya Janata Party's (BJP) Karnail Singh, and Congress' Satish Kumar Luthra.

 
The outcome of this contest is crucial, as it has witnessed intense competition from major political parties. 
 
In the 2020 Delhi Assembly elections, Satyendar Jain of AAP secured a victory, defeating BJP’s Dr S C Vats by a margin of 7,592 votes. The constituency had a total of 146,226 electors, with 99,165 valid votes cast. 
 
Now, Satyendar Jain of AAP returns to defend his seat, while Karnail Singh has been nominated by BJP, and Satish Kumar Luthra is contesting for Congress, setting the stage for a significant three-way contest in the region.
 

Exit poll gives BJP edge
------------------------

 
Most exit polls have indicated that the BJP is likely to have the upper hand over AAP, which has been in power in Delhi since 2015. A combined forecast from five leading polling agencies predicts the BJP could secure between 38 and 43 seats, while AAP is expected to win around 26 to 32 seats. Meanwhile, Congress, which governed Delhi for 15 years under Sheila Dikshit, is anticipated to remain a minor contender, with projections of 0 to 1 seats.

[business-standard](https://www.business-standard.com/elections/delhi-elections/shakur-basti-assembly-result-satyendar-jain-karnail-singh-satish-luthra-125020800108_1.html)
