---
title: "Trump admin lays off probationary govt workers, warns more cuts to come"
date: "2025-02-14 10:55:26"
summary: "The Trump administration has intensified its sweeping efforts to shrink the size of the federal workforce, the US' largest employer, by ordering agencies to lay off nearly all probationary employees who had not yet gained civil service protection potentially affecting hundreds of thousands of workers. In addition, workers at some..."
categories:
  - "business-standard"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "business-standard"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

The Trump administration has intensified its sweeping efforts to shrink the size of the federal workforce, the US' largest employer, by ordering agencies to lay off nearly all probationary employees who had not yet gained civil service protection potentially affecting hundreds of thousands of workers.

In addition, workers at some agencies on Thursday were warned that large workplace cuts would be coming.

The decision on probationary workers, who generally have less than a year on the job, came from the Office of Personnel Management, which serves as a human resources department for the federal government. The notification was confirmed by a person familiar with the matter, who spoke on condition of anonymity because they were not authorised to discuss it publicly.

 

It's expected to be the first step in sweeping layoffs. President Donald Trump signed an executive order Tuesday that told agency leaders to plan for large-scale reductions in force.

Elon Musk, whom President Trump has given wide leeway to slash government spending with his Department of Government Efficiency, called Thursday for the elimination of whole agencies.

I think we do need to delete entire agencies as opposed to leave a lot of them behind, Musk said via a videocall to the World Governments Summit in Dubai, United Arab Emirates. If we don't remove the roots of the weed, then it's easy for the weed to grow back.

Paul Light, an expert on the federal government and professor emeritus of public service at New York University, said it seemed like the administration was inventing new methods for destroying government capacity.

You're basically harassing your own workforce at the end of the day, he said. You're undermining the engine that you want to run.

Layoffs are unlikely to yield significant deficit savings. When the Congressional Budget Office looked at the issue, it found the government spent $271 billion annually compensating civilian federal workers, with about 60% of that total going to workers employed by the departments of Defence, Homeland Security and Veterans Affairs.

The government could, in theory, have cut all those workers and still run a deficit of over $1 trillion that would continue to grow as tax revenues are needed to keep up with the growing costs of Social Security and Medicare.

Thursday's order was an expansion of previous directions from OPM, which told agencies earlier this week that probationary employees should be fired if they weren't meeting high standards. It's not clear how many workers are currently in a probationary period. According to government data maintained by OPM, as of March 2024, 220,000 workers had less than a year on the job the most recent data available.

The firing of probationary employees began earlier this week and has included Consumer Financial Protection Bureau and the Department of Education workers.

At least 39 were fired from the Education Department on Wednesday, according to a union that represents agency workers, including civil rights workers, special education specialists and student aid officials.

The layoffs also hit Department of Veterans Affairs researchers working on cancer treatment, opioid addiction, prosthetics and burn pit exposure, US Senator Patty Murray, a Democrat, said Thursday.

I'm hearing from longtime VA researchers in my home state of Washington who are right now being told to immediately stop their research and pack their bags, Murray said in a statement, not because their work isn't desperately needed, but because Trump and Elon have decided to fire these researchers on a whim.

Public Employees for Environmental Responsibility, a group that defends government workers, said the Agriculture Department's Food Safety and Inspection Service would be hit especially hard by laying off probationary employees because it has trouble recruiting inspectors required to be present at all times at most slaughterhouses.

Firing any probationary employees would be a big kick in the gut to those that do very gruelling and difficult work, PEER's executive director, Tim Whitehouse, said. It would make our food system less safe and cause consumer confidence in the safety of our food supply to dip.

The civilian federal workforce, not including military personnel and postal workers, is made up of about 2.4 million people. While about 20% of the workers are in Washington DC, and the neighbouring states of Maryland and Virginia, more than 80% live outside the Capitol region.

Trump's initial attempt to downsize the workforce was the deferred resignation programme, commonly described as a buyout, which offered to pay people until Sept. 30 if they agreed to quit. The White House said 75,000 people signed up, and a federal judge cleared a legal roadblock for the program on Wednesday.

However, the number of workers who took the offer was less than the administration's target, and Trump has made it clear he would take further steps.

Employees at the National Science Foundation and Housing and Urban Development Department were told this week that large reductions, in some cases a halving of the workforce, would be coming, according to a person familiar with the situation who spoke on condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to discuss it.

The National Science Foundation was told to expect a 25% to 50% reduction in force within two months, while the Housing and Urban Development Department was told to plan for a 50% reduction, the person said.

Employees at the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration were also bracing Thursday for reductions in their workforce.

The order Trump signed Tuesday stipulated that government functions not required by law would be prioritised for cuts and hiring will be restricted. With exceptions for functions such as public safety, only one employee can be added for every four that leave. In addition, new hires would generally need the approval from a representative of the DOGE, expanding the influence of Musk's team.

Trump, speaking to reporters later at the White House, praised Musk's work to slash federal spending.

We're looking for waste, fraud and abuse, he said. That's what Elon is working so hard on.

The Republican president has also been sharply critical of federal workers, especially those who want to keep working remotely, though his administration is simultaneously working to cut federal office space and ordering the termination of worksite leases throughout the government.

Nobody is gonna work from home, Trump said Monday. They are gonna be going out, they're gonna play tennis, they're gonna play golf, they're gonna do a lot of things. They're not working.

[business-standard](https://www.business-standard.com/world-news/trump-admin-lays-off-probationary-govt-workers-warns-more-cuts-to-come-125021400155_1.html)
