---
title: "J&K CM Omar Abdullah meets HM Amit Shah, discusses law and order issues"
date: "2025-02-10 22:10:29"
summary: "Jammu and Kashmir Chief Minister Omar Abdullah on Monday called on Union Home Minister Amit Shah and discussed with him various issues related to law and order in the Union Territory and changes in industrial and tourism policies to give a boost to these two sectors. During the meeting, which..."
categories:
  - "business-standard"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "business-standard"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Jammu and Kashmir Chief Minister Omar Abdullah on Monday called on Union Home Minister Amit Shah and discussed with him various issues related to law and order in the Union Territory and changes in industrial and tourism policies to give a boost to these two sectors.

During the meeting, which lasted for 30 minutes, officials said the chief minister briefed Shah about the situation in J&K after the two recent incidents -- the death of a person by suicide in Kathua in Jammu, and shooting of a truck driver after he did not stop at a checkpoint in Sopore in north Kashmir. 

**ALSO READ: [No Indian citizen will lose life after end of Naxalism by March 2026: Shah](/external-affairs-defence-security/news/no-indian-citizen-will-lose-life-after-end-of-naxalism-by-march-2026-shah-125020900353_1.html)** 

After these incidents that took place on February 4 and 5, the chief minister had said that incidents like these "risk alienating the very people who we need to carry with us on the road to complete normalcy".

"I have taken up these incidents with the Union Government & insisted that both incidents are inquired into in a time bound, transparent manner. The Government in J&K will also order its own inquiries," Abdullah had said in a post on X. 

> I have seen the reports of excessive use of force & harassment of Makhan Din in police custody in Billawar leading to his suicide and the death of Waseem Ahmed Malla, shot by the army under circumstances that are not entirely clear. Both these incidents are highly unfortunate and…
> 
> — Omar Abdullah (@OmarAbdullah) [February 6, 2025](https://twitter.com/OmarAbdullah/status/1887456030189076544?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw)


  

During the meeting on Monday, the chief minister is believed to have conveyed to the home minister the need for taking people of the UT into confidence and that as the public representative of the people, his government should have a say in maintaining the law and order, the officials said.

Abdullah said that the last stages of militancy won't be succeeded in vacuum, according to the officials.

A strong votary of peaceful Jammu and Kashmir, Abdullah has been emphasising that the situation in the UT cannot be normalised in a vacuum.

The meeting came a week after Shah chaired two back-to-back meetings in two days where the security situation of J&K was discussed threadbare.

"The Chief Minister of Jammu and Kashmir Shri @OmarAbdullah, called on Union Home Minister and Minister of Cooperation Shri @AmitShah," Shah's office wrote on 'X'.

During Monday's meeting, the officials said Abdullah also apprised the home minister about the business rules which are likely to be vetted by the MHA.

After the erstwhile state was downgraded into two UTs in 2019, the law and order is under the direct control of the central government.

Abdullah also discussed some changes in the industrial and tourism policies in order to incentivise manufacturing sector and bring more tourists.

[business-standard](https://www.business-standard.com/india-news/j-k-cm-omar-abdullah-meets-hm-amit-shah-discusses-law-and-order-issues-125021001144_1.html)
