---
title: "Trump tariff, FII selling: Why Sensex fell 1200 pts; Nifty breached 23,000?"
date: "2025-02-11 17:10:29"
summary: "Indian equities slumped in trade on Tuesday, February 11, 2025. The BSE Sensex crashed 1,281 points or 1.65 per cent and logged an intraday low at 76,030.59. Meanwhile, the National Stock Exchange (NSE) Nifty breached the 23,000 level and dropped 395 points or 1.68 per cent to the day's low..."
categories:
  - "business-standard"
lang:
  - "en"
translations:
  - "en"
tags:
  - "business-standard"
menu: ""
thumbnail: ""
lead: ""
comments: false
authorbox: false
pager: true
toc: false
mathjax: false
sidebar: "right"
widgets:
  - "search"
  - "recent"
  - "taglist"
---

Indian equities slumped in trade on Tuesday, February 11, 2025. The [BSE Sensex](https://www.business-standard.com/markets/sp-bse-sensex-share-price-20558.html) crashed 1,281 points or 1.65 per cent and logged an intraday low at 76,030.59. Meanwhile, the National Stock Exchange (NSE) Nifty breached the 23,000 level and dropped 395 points or 1.68 per cent to the day's low at 22,986.65.
 
Around 2:19 PM, on BSE, Zomato, Power Grid, Larsen and Toubro (L&T), Tata Steel, Hindustan Unilever (HUL) were among the top laggards, slipping over 2 per cent each. 
 
On NSE, Eicher Motors, Apollo Hospitals slipped over 6 per cent, Shriram Finance was down over 4 per cent, Bharat Electronics (BEL) and HDFC Life down was over 3 per cent and were the top five losers.   
### Here are a few reasons why the market crashed on February 11, 2025:

### Trump tariff worries

US President [Donald Trump](https://www.business-standard.com/about/who-is-donald-trump) substantially raised tariffs on steel and aluminum imports on Monday to a flat 25 per cent "without exceptions or exemptions". 
 
Nifty Metal was down over 1 per cent with JSW Steel, Hindustan Zinc, Ratnamani Metals, NMDC down over 4 per cent. 
 
In addition to the tariffs on steel and aluminium, Trump plans to introduce “reciprocal tariffs” on imports from all countries to match the tariffs those nations impose on US products.
### FII selling

Foreign Institutional Investors (FIIs) are continuously selling Indian equities, which is denting market sentiments. On Monday, FIIs sold Rs 2,463.72 crore worth of equities. As per NSDL data, FIIs have sold Rs 78,027 crore in January and so far they have sold Rs 85,841 crore worth equities. 
 
"FIIs would wait for local currency to stabilise before committing any significant investments. Therefore, their selling may continue till March 2025," said Chokkalingam G, Founder, Equinomics Research Pvt Ltd. 
### Weakness in broader markets and sectoral indices

BSE Midcap and Smallcap slipped over 3 per cent each in trade. Last seen, among the BSE Midcap players, individually, PB Fintech, Uno Minda, Escorts Kuborta, Lupin slipped over 6 per cent, JSW Infra, Voltas Oberoi Realty, Torrent Power, KPIT Tech lost over 5 per cent. 
 
On the BSE Smallcap index, among others, NGL-Fine Chemical dropped over 15 per cent, Goldiam International was down nearly 13 per cent, Aeroflex Industries were down over 12 per cent, Kfin Technologies, Zaggle and Senco Gold were down over 9 per cent. 
 
On the sectoral front, broad-based selling was seen. Nifty Realty slipped over 3 per cent, Nifty Auto, Nifty FMCG, Nifty Pharma, Nifty Oil & Gas, Nifty PSU Bank over 2 per cent. 
### Mixed global markets

In Asia, Chinese stocks traded lower after Trump imposed tariffs on on steel and aluminum imports with mainland China CSI 300 down 0.40 per cent, Shanghai down 0.12 per cent and Hong Kong's Hang Seng down over 1 per cent. Japan's Nikkei was flat with positive bias. 
 
Meanwhile, in the European region, Germany's Dax was flat with positive bias, United Kingdom's FTSE was up 0.15 per cent and French stock market index CAC was up 0.12 per cent.

[business-standard](https://www.business-standard.com/markets/news/trump-tariff-fii-selling-why-sensex-fell-1200-pts-nifty-breached-23-000-125021101035_1.html)
